Google Ads plans major AI Push in 2025, reshaping search marketing
sel logo
Chat with SearchBot
Google Ads is preparing for what executives call a “seismic shift” in consumer search behavior, with AI playing a central role in transforming how users discover information and interact with businesses.
The transformation represents a bigger change than the mobile revolution, according to Brendon Kraham, VP of global search ads and commerce, signaling a fundamental shift in how advertisers will need to approach digital marketing.
It will be essential to keep testing how AI should work for your campaigns, even though you may initially see poor results. 
Related stories
New on Search Engine Land
About the author
Related topics
Get the newsletter search marketers rely on.
See terms.
Learn actionable search marketing tactics that can help you drive more traffic, leads, and revenue. 
Discover time-saving technologies and actionable tactics that can help you overcome crucial marketing challenges.
Free 14 day Semrush trial
Get 55+ tools to gain insights and grow your audience.
Your Guide to Reporting and Measurement on Connected TV
Elevate Your Data Strategy: From Cookies to Universal Consent & Preferences
The 40% Shift: How AI is Radically Reshaping Marketing Budgets
Enterprise SEO Platforms: A Marketer’s Guide
Email Marketing Platforms: A Marketer’s Guide
Customer Data Platforms: A Marketer’s Guide
Conversion Benchmark Report 2024
Meet your new AI-powered marketing assistant!
Get the newsletter search marketers rely on.
Topics
Our events
Semrush
About
Follow us
© 2025 Search Engine Land is a Trademark of Semrush Inc.
Third Door Media operates business-to-business media properties and produces events, including SMX. It is the publisher of Search Engine Land, the leading digital publication covering the latest search engine optimization (SEO) and pay-per-click (PPC) marketing news, trends and advice. The company headquarters is 800 Boylston Street, Suite 2475, Boston, MA USA 02199.
