Ether may ‘struggle’ in 2025, SOL ETF odds rise, and more: Hodler’s Digest, Dec. 29 – Jan. 4
On Jan. 1, cryptocurrency prediction platform Polymarket said the odds of a US Solana ETF listing in 2025 are around 77%. In a post on the X platform, Sigel described Polymarket’s forecast as “underpriced.” 
Sigel’s optimism mirrors industry-wide expectations of more crypto ETF listings in the US after President-elect Donald Trump’s November election win. Trump said he wants to make America “the world’s crypto capital.”
Prediction markets work by letting users trade contracts tied to specific events, with prices fluctuating dynamically based on expected outcomes. Polymarket’s projected ETF listing odds increased to approximately 84% as of Jan. 2, according to its website.
The embattled crypto founder appeared in Manhattan before US Magistrate Judge Robert W. Lehrburger of the Southern District of New York on Thursday afternoon to submit his plea and agreed to be held without bail.
The former tech executive faces nine counts of various charges, including securities fraud, wire fraud, money laundering charges and commodities fraud, for his role in the collapse of the Terra ecosystem.
A status conference is set for Jan. 8, 2025, for the defense and the prosecution to share evidence and discuss motions leading into the trial.
Qureshi said the “AI agent craze” will probably persist through 2025, but it won’t last forever. As more advanced AI products come along, people will lose interest in social media chatbots.
“It will die off eventually. This is not the long-term disruption to watch out for from AI, but it will be CT’s fixation because it is the most social,” he said.
AI agent chatbots have become popular in the crypto industry, offering crypto users insights and market price predictions.
Over the past 24 hours, total memecoin trading volume dropped almost 21.5%, while trading volume among the top AI and data tokens rose by 7.95%, according to CoinMarketCap.
Under the rules, banks must monitor and report risky forex trading activities. This includes cross-border gambling, underground banks and illegal cross-border financial activities involving crypto assets. 
Chinese regulators also require banks to track the activities based on the identity of individuals and institutions involved, their sources of funds and the frequency of their trades. 
Liu Zhengyao, a lawyer at the ZhiHeng law firm in Shanghai, said that the new rules will provide another basis for punishing crypto trading, and added that China’s regulatory stance toward crypto may continue to tighten. 
FIFO, otherwise known as “First In, First Out,” is the default method for calculating capital gains tax in the US. It is calculated by assuming the oldest cryptocurrency bought is sold first, pushing up a taxpayer’s capital gains. 
DeFi’s billion-dollar secret: The insiders responsible for hacks
Porn Payments Were Supposed to be Crypto’s Killer App: Why Have They Flopped?
Chandrasekera warned that imposing this rule immediately could have “been disastrous” for many crypto taxpayers during a bull market.
“What began as a satirical commentary on cryptocurrency with Dogecoin has evolved into a sophisticated market vertical that attracts significant capital flows and institutional attention.”
“Institutional adoption is expected to reach unparalleled levels, further bolstered by significant inflows into U.S.-based Bitcoin and Ethereum ETFs.”
“While the possibility of a new catalyst cannot be ruled out, we wouldn’t be surprised if Ethereum struggles to deliver meaningful rallies next year.”
“In my view, a few weeks of consolidation could set the stage for a massive breakout. $131.5K+ by Q1 2025 feels inevitable. See you there.”
“Current agents can easily be manipulated into saying crazy things that damage their brands, or can be jailbroken to steal all of their resources.”
“Emerging narratives like AI-driven investments, decentralized AI agents, and tokenized assets hint at a tech-driven shift, though with added risk.”
Other analysts said they are waiting for more confirmation from the price charts to see which way it will go.
“While we appreciate Ethereum’s volatility, we believe it remains a poor medium-term investment and expect ETH to underperform BTC once again in 2025,” Thielen said. “As a result, our stance on Ethereum remains clear: ‘avoid.’”
Thielen said one of the most important metrics to watch in 2025 will be the trend in active validators. Still, he noted that the growth rate of validators had turned negative, dropping by about 1% over the past 30 days, raising concerns about the increasing risk of more validators exiting the network.
Crypto innovators of color restricted by the rules aimed to protect them
Crypto winter can take a toll on hodlers’ mental health
“Current findings suggest this was an isolated incident with no indication of a larger plan,” the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said in a post on X.
The FCA has not yet fined companies that failed to remove crypto ads that violate the FCA’s rules. Regulations require digital asset promotions to get approvals from the FCA or an FCA-authorized business before going live. 
Binance removes 3 stablecoins, Russia eyes cross-border crypto payments and UK exudes crypto positivity: Hodler’s Digest, Sept. 4-10
The best (and worst) quotes, adoption and regulation highlights, leading coins, predictions and much more — one week on Cointelegraph in one link!
Powers On… Don’t worry, Bitcoin’s adoption will not be stopped
Bitcoin is bigger than the United States and the FED/SEC so stop worrying, its adoption and acceptance will continue.
Earn crypto for 2025 gaming predictions, 50M monthly gamers incoming: Web3 Gamer
Ether may ‘struggle’ in 2025, SOL ETF odds rise, and more: Hodler’s Digest, Dec. 29 – Jan. 4
Big moves expected for crypto in Asia in 2025: Asia Express
Down to $200 one day, Pixels founder had $2.4M the next: Luke Barwikowski, X Hall of Flame
Will ETH outperform BTC in Jan? IRS DeFi broker rules, and more: Hodler’s Digest, Dec. 22 – 28
Cointelegraph Magazine is a new publication that goes beyond the daily news and delves much more deeply into the stories, trends, and personalities that inspire cryptocurrency and blockchain conversations around the world.
We are people-centric, delving into *why* the true believers of blockchain feel they can change the world (and why they think it needs to be changed).
Through long-form features, thoughtful analysis, and a little humor and satire, we illustrate how the implementation of this technology is affecting the lives of countless people — today, right now, not at some distant point in the future.
