Over 12.6m people enjoy benefits of social safety net programme: CA
BSS
Published :
Updated :
Share this news
Chief Adviser (CA) Professor Muhammad Yunus on Wednesday said that currently over 12.6 million people are being served under the social safety net programme.
“With the help of information technology, the allowances of social safety net programme are reaching the doorstep of the people through mobile financial services and banks through the G2P system. Currently, 1,26,39,866 people are being served under the programme,” he said in a message marking the National Social Service Day-2025 that will be observed tomorrow (Thursday).
The total allocation for this programme in the 2024-25 fiscal year is Tk 105.59 billion (Tk  10,559.94 crore), he said, adding that the Ministry of Social Welfare and the Department of Social Services are implementing a total of 54 public welfare based programmes efficiently with limited manpower and resources, which is commendable.
Through social service activities, millions of people, including students and the public injured in the July Revolution, are receiving medical care and assistance at hospitals every year, he said.
The Department of Social Services of the Ministry of Social Welfare is working tirelessly for the welfare and development of the country’s poverty-stricken, elderly, disadvantaged children, adolescents, widows, women who faces domestic violence, seriously ill patients and marginalized communities, including the helpless people, he said.
It is successfully implementing social safety net programmes in Bangladesh, he added.
The Chief Adviser said this year’s theme of the day titled ‘Those who have no one by their sides, have social service (Nei Pashe Kew Jar, Somaj Seba Ache Tar)’, is appropriate and time befitting.
Professor Muhammad Yunus wished all programmes undertaken on the occasion of ‘National Social Service Day, 2025’ a success.
Share this news
PABX : 02223389780 (Hunting)
Fax : 880-2-02223387049
You'll get monthly newsletter from us!
© 2025 - All Rights with The Financial Express



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions the use of 'information technology' and'mobile financial services' through the G2P system to reach the allowances of the social safety net programme to the people, indicating a significant role of computing in the programme. However, the focus remains on the social welfare aspect, and the discussion is relatively surface-level in terms of technical details."}]