Pakistan Suffered The Most Losses Via Govt Internet Shutdowns: Report
Governments persistently resort to internet blackouts as a means of control. From managing civil unrest and political protests to overseeing elections and preventing exam cheating, these digital disruptions have become an increasingly common tool of state power, wreaking havoc on civil liberties and economic stability.
Though 2024’s financial toll was significant, it fell short of the record-breaking figures in previous years. The economic impact in 2022 reached an unprecedented $24.61 billion, while 2023 saw losses of $9.01 billion. Despite the comparative decrease, experts note that 2024 still set several concerning precedents in terms of shutdown frequency and duration.
This is because, in 2024, a record-breaking 28 nations implemented digital blackouts. These disruptions amounted to 167 major outages, affecting 648.4 million people worldwide. Most notably, the cumulative duration of these shutdowns stretched to 88,788 hours, marking a 12% increase from the previous year and setting a new record for the longest period of disruptions ever documented.
Interestingly, despite the overall surge in internet restrictions, social media blockades showed a downward trend compared to prior years.
This was probably due to disruptions like Pakistan’s shutdown of X generating a lot of attention, whereas the long-running internet blackouts in regional Myanmar and Azerbaijan fell off the agenda after a while.
Follow ProPakistani on Google News & scroll through your favourite content faster!
If you want to join us in our mission to share independent, global journalism to the world, we’d love to have you on our side.
        If you can, please support us on a monthly basis. It takes less than a minute to set up, and you can rest assured that you’re making a big impact every single month in support of open, independent journalism. Thank you.
    
Shares
Welcome to pakistan
Interest rates low but prices of everything is high
Education is high but jobs are low
You are not allowed to access social media but govt is 
The internet is considered the future but you can’t access it 
The govt believes in country but you can’t criticise of they do anything wrong
We are told to hate Israel , but ok when we do it.
© 2025 ProPakistani.PK - All rights reserved
Follow ProPakistani to get latest news and updates.
Join the groups below to get latest news and updates.
Session expired



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses government-imposed internet shutdowns as a means of control, highlighting the economic impact and frequency of these disruptions. While not exclusively focused on computing or AI, the topic of internet shutdowns is central to the discussion, and the article explores technical, regulatory, and societal aspects. The article mentions specific technologies like social media and the internet, but the focus is on their use as tools of state power rather than their technical development or implementation."}]