Tanzania leverages trust  to propel digital economy
He noted that for the digital economy to be effective, it must be centred on the people, ensuring they can comfortably and safely engage in economic activities using digital platforms.
Dr Mwasaga added that the government made efforts to ensure that there is trust and safety infrastructures such as PDPC to create environment that enable people to get the required benefits as envisioned.
“The digital economy, often referred to as the economy of the people, requires that individuals actively participate in economic activities using digital platforms,” he said.
Dr Mwasaga added: “Like any other countries, Tanzania has established trust infrastructure through PDPC which is committed to creating an environment where people feel comfortable engaging in the digital economy. This is essential for realising the benefits we envision.”
He further expounded that there are significant investments that are being made to ensure that there is strong cyber security and constant transparent systems for most people to trust and participate while feeling protected.
In a significant step forward, on July last year President Samia Suluhu Hassan, during the 15th Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) meeting in Dar es Salaam, launched the 10 years Digital Economy Strategy Framework 2024- 2034.
Among other things the framework highlighted the need for strong governance framework to support digital infrastructure including the 2024 National ICT Policy.
Furthermore, the framework highlighted on the National Electronic Data Sharing and Exchange Guidelines, Tanzania Digital Public Infrastructure Blueprint 2024 and the Tanzania Digital Compatibility and Stadardisation Framework 2024.
In another development President Samia made a cabinet reshuffle which saw the information sector being transferred from the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology.
President Samia expressed the decision to lessen the responsibilities of that ministry so it can focus more on implementing the government’s major strategic plans, including the digital economy, including launching the satellite.
Latest Posts



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses the digital economy in Tanzania, with a focus on creating a trustworthy environment for people to participate using digital platforms. It mentions specific initiatives such as PDPC, strong cyber security, and transparent systems. The article also references the 10-year Digital Economy Strategy Framework 2024-2034, which includes the National ICT Policy, Tanzania Digital Public Infrastructure Blueprint 2024, and the Tanzania Digital Compatibility and Standardisation Framework 2024. While the article does not delve into technical details, it highlights the importance of digital infrastructure and governance in supporting the digital economy."}]