
      Indian IT firms look forward to benefits from Trump’s return to the White House
  
The United States is critical to India's US$245 billion IT sector as its largest foreign market. 
Among the firms looking forward to Donald Trump's return to the White House on Jan 20 is Ceinsys, which as part of its US expansion, acquired a Michigan-based company in July.

       This audio is generated by an AI tool.
    
MUMBAI: India’s tech sector is optimistic that incoming United States President Donald Trump's return to the White House will bring significant benefits for the industry. 
The US is critical to India's US$245 billion IT sector as its largest foreign market. 
Among the firms looking forward to Trump's return to the White House on Jan 20 is Ceinsys, which as part of its US expansion, acquired a Michigan-based company in July. 
Trump announced that he will cut corporate taxes from 21 per cent to 15 per cent. 
Ceinsys, which specialises in using artificial intelligence and analytics to deliver mapping and engineering solutions, hopes this will help boost its US business, as funds can be freed up to use on other investments, like IT. 
“Small companies like us will benefit from that. The tax cut is really a boon for Indian companies in the US,” said managing director Abhay Kimmatkar. 
Seventy per cent of the company's business comes from India and the remaining is from the US - a proportion Mr Kimmatkar is looking to change. 
He wants his company's US earnings to make up the lion's share in three years' time.
Other firms are also optimistic about Trump 2.0. 
IT companies that focus on outsourcing from the US and therefore earn in American dollars also hope to reap the rewards of a stronger US currency. 
Such a boost is much-needed, as analysts have said that recent quarters have seen American companies holding back on spending amid inflationary and economic concerns.
Analysts said that the Trump presidency and his negative stance on China could help to divert funding to India and help startups grow.
“India has become and remains one of the most preferred destinations for global capital. That is only likely to continue with the arrival of Trump. In fact that direction of flow is likely to get more strongly routed towards India,” said managing director of Mumbai-based Bexley Advisors Utkarsh Sinha
However, he cautioned that Trump is a “wildcard”.
Companies including Ceinsys which send workers to the US are worried about Trump's position on immigration. Their concerns are not unfounded - IT firms had to adapt during Trump's first term between 2017 and 2021, when  visas widely used by the industry became tougher to secure.
Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox
Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories
Get WhatsApp alerts
Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app
Copyright© Mediacorp 2025. Mediacorp Pte Ltd. All rights reserved.
We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.
To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses the potential benefits of Trump's return to the White House on India's IT sector, specifically mentioning Ceinsys, a company that specializes in using artificial intelligence and analytics. The discussion provides some depth on how AI and analytics contribute to the company's business, and how the tax cut could help boost its US business. However, the article's focus is primarily on the economic and political implications of Trump's presidency, making AI a significant but not dominant topic."}]