
Over 10,000 students benefit under Naan Mudhalvan scheme in Erode district

A total of 10,728 students in Erode district have benefitted from the Naan Mudhalvan scheme, which aims to provide employment-linked skill development training to youth.
Under the scheme, free courses are offered in areas such as AutoCAD, cyber security, business management, employability skills, 3D modelling, electrical design, skill management, graphic design and training in industry-based software. Additionally, under the short-term course stream, students are trained in tailoring, milling, computerised numerical control (CNC) systems, etc. These courses are offered by TN Skills (formerly Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation) through partnerships with private and government training institutes in the district.
A district officer at TN Skills said 1,00,970 students from engineering, arts and science have received training, of which 7,738 have secured various jobs. Over the past three years, 7,068 students have undergone skill development training, and 2,990 have secured placements or become entrepreneurs.
The students were trained at the Government Industrial Training Institutes in Erode and Gobichettipalayam, as well as at private institutes. “We have partnered with a few private companies to train the students,” he said. The official also noted that they are working on providing training to youth in the Sri Lankan Tamil Rehabilitation Camp at Bhavanisagar.
Officials from the Skill Development Corporation in Salem reported that under the Naan Mudhalvan Scheme for the 2022-23 academic year, 23,040 engineering students received skill training, and 3,173 final-year engineering students secured job opportunities. In the following academic year, 2023-24, 16,584 engineering students underwent skill training, and 1,252 final-year students found employment.
Likewise, in the 2022-23 academic year, 43,034 Arts and Science college students (from first year to third year) were given training,  of which 4,304 final-year students secured jobs. In the 2023-24 academic year, 41,298 students received training, and 2,352 final-year students were able to find relevant jobs. Similarly, under this scheme, 10,405 polytechnic college students have received skill training.
Officials said that under the Naan Mudhalvan Finishing School (NMFS) over the last two years, 1,672 people received skill training worth ₹80 lakh in the district, and as transport expenses, ₹1.67 lakh was provided to them.

                        Erode
                    

					Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
				
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to the Naan Mudhalvan scheme, which provides employment-linked skill development training to youth, including courses in AutoCAD, cyber security, 3D modelling, electrical design, and industry-based software. The scheme has benefited over 10,000 students in Erode district, with many securing jobs or becoming entrepreneurs. The article highlights the success of the scheme in providing skill training to engineering, arts, and science students, as well as polytechnic college students."}]