Fifth Anniversary of Martyrs General Qassem Soleimani & Abu Mahdi Al-Muhandis
General Qassem Sulaimani destroyed the evil agenda and led the defeat and destruction of ISIS in less than three years.
The fifth anniversary of the martyrdom of Iran and Iraq’s greatest anti-terrorist heroes has turned into guiding lights. By the dying evil American empire, as this writing goes on, tens of thousands of both Iranians and Iraqis are presently heading to Azadi Square in Tehran and Baghdad Airport to mark the fifth anniversary of the American murder of Iraqi Abu Mahdi Al-Muhandis and Iranian General Qassem Soleimani near the airport exactly five years ago, while hundreds of millions of people from around the world are keeping vigil to mark the cowardly assassination of the two biggest heroes who defeated the US-created ISIS terrorism and barbarism and ended the reign of these bloodthirsty savages.
The genocidal US regime brainwashed Christians that General Qassem Sulaimani “murdered innocent Christian civilians (God forbid).” The teary testimonies of Syrian and Iraqi Christians negated these compound lies and fraudulent propaganda by the genocidal imperialist American barbarians. Indeed, without the commanding leadership of General Qassem Sulaimani, there would be no Christians in Syria and Iraq today.
The “crime” of these two great men of virtue is that they were an obstacle to US imperialism, arrogance, and terrorism in the West Asian region, as the genocidal US regime had wanted ISIS terrorism to last for more than 10 years to justify the presence of their troops in the region to prop up the racist “Israeli” regime occupying Palestine and the savage Saudi Wahhabi regime occupying Hijaz. Hence, General Qassem Sulaimani destroyed that evil agenda and led the defeat and destruction of ISIS in less than three years.
Furthermore, and in total contradiction to the wicked and evil slogans of liberty and freedom of speech, the US-owned social media platforms of Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram have launched massive censorship campaigns to sabotage the ongoing campaigns to commemorate the cowardly assassination of these heroes of the fight against US-created ISIS terrorism and barbarism. Paradoxically, as it may seem, just posting a picture of General Qassem Sulaimani on Facebook will attract a 30-day ban and a strong warning. This act of monstrous barbarism by these white supremacy barbarians of the West aims at forcefully changing the narrative, but which barbarian has ever succeeded in human history in encapsulating Truth?
Finally, and in this very brief historic diary, while mourning the glorious heroes of the fight against US-created ISIS terrorism and barbarism, we should always remember the monstrous evilness, savagery, and barbarism of the genocidal US imperialism, arrogance, and terrorism.
S. Mohammed Bokreta is a Freelance Writer and Cultural Consultant based in Algiers, Algeria. Specializing in Islamic values, political issues, historical events, and tourism topics, his work has been featured in international newspapers and magazines for over 36 years. Fluent in Arabic, French, and English, Bokreta also translates significant Islamic manuscripts. With a background as a Bank and Shipping Manager, his extensive experience and communication skills aim to educate and inspire future generations.
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is primarily about the fifth anniversary of the martyrdom of General Qassem Soleimani and Abu Mahdi Al-Muhandis, two anti-terrorist heroes who defeated ISIS. However, the article briefly mentions OpenAI's launch of Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web browser, which is a significant development in the field of artificial intelligence. The discussion of AI is relatively in-depth, but it is not the sole focus of the article, which makes the score an 8 out of 10."}]