Gemini Agrees to Pay $5M CFTC Fine Before Donald Trump’s Inauguration
Gemini Trust Company reaches $5 million settlement with CFTC over Bitcoin futures case, choosing to resolve litigation before the upcoming Trump administration.
Gemini Trust Company, a New York-based cryptocurrency exchange founded in 2014 by the Winklevoss brothers, has agreed to pay a penalty of $5 million to the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to end a long-standing litigation. The Winklevoss brothers agreed to pay the fine in a joint court hearing on Monday to avoid a trial set to coincide with the inauguration of pro-crypto US President-elect Donald Trump.
Furthermore, Gemini cryptocurrency exchange, among other web3 companies, is banking on the upcoming Trump administration to set clearer and better crypto regulations. Possibly, most of the crypto companies are betting on the new leaders of the US SEC chair and CFTC to drop crypto-related cases, which were orchestrated by the Biden administration.
Early last year, Gemini agreed to pay a $37 million fine and to return at least $1.1 billion to its Earn Program users following a settlement with the New York Department of Financial Services. As a result, Gemini is well positioned to enter the next crypto adoption era free of major litigation, which will help attract more new customers.
The company’s products, including the NFT marketplace dubbed Nifty Gateway, will have a chance to grow exponentially in the coming months without major headwinds from legal challenges.
Let’s talk web3, crypto, Metaverse, NFTs, CeDeFi, meme coins, and Stocks, and focus on multi-chain as the future of blockchain technology.

Let us all WIN!
Steve Muchoki on LinkedIn
Marco T. Lanz on X
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 23rd, 2025
Copyright © 2025 MDD Group FZE LLC All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of MDD Group FZE LLC is prohibited.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to cryptocurrency and blockchain technology, which are key aspects of computing and AI. The discussion is detailed, with mentions of specific companies (Gemini Trust Company), products (NFT marketplace Nifty Gateway), and regulatory actions (CFTC fine). While the article also touches on broader topics like web3 and the Metaverse, the focus on cryptocurrency and blockchain technology makes it a significant discussion in the computing field."}]