The power of partnerships
Conduct legal research efficiently and confidently using trusted content, proprietary editorial enhancements, and advanced technology.
Accelerate how you find answers with powerful generative AI capabilities and the expertise of 650+ attorney editors. With Practical Law, access thousands of expertly maintained how-to guides, templates, checklists, and more across all major practice areas.
A business management tool for legal professionals that automates workflow. Simplify project management, increase profits, and improve client satisfaction.
Unleash the power of generative AI through an accounting and tax research tool. Find answers faster with dialogue-based research and quick, on-point search results.
Provides a full line of federal, state, and local programs. Save time with tax planning, preparation, and compliance.
Automate work paper preparation and eliminate data entry
Software that keeps supply chain data in one central location. Optimize operations, connect with external partners, create reports and keep inventory accurate.
Automate sales and use tax, GST, and VAT compliance. Consolidate multiple country-specific spreadsheets into a single, customizable solution and improve tax filing and return accuracy.
Search volumes of data with intuitive navigation and simple filtering parameters. Prevent, detect, and investigate crime.
Identify patterns of potentially fraudulent behavior with actionable analytics and protect resources and program integrity.
Analyze data to detect, prevent, and mitigate fraud. Focus investigation resources on the highest risks and protect programs by reducing improper payments.
Around the globe, with unmatched speed and scale, Reuters Connect gives you the power to serve your audiences in a whole new way.
Reuters Plus, the commercial content studio at the heart of Reuters, builds campaign content that helps you to connect with your audiences in meaningful and hyper-targeted ways.
Reuters.com provides readers with a rich, immersive multimedia experience when accessing the latest fast-moving global news and in-depth reporting.
Shop our latest titles
ProView Quickfinder favorite libraries
At Thomson Reuters we understand that in today’s dynamic business landscape, relationships not only matter, they are a key differentiator in the marketplace.
The Thomson Reuters Partnerships & Alliances Program connects our clients to world-class organizations, services, and products through robust programs designed to propel Thomson Reuters and its partners to heights impossible to achieve alone. Becoming a Thomson Reuters partner gives businesses access to the tools, resources, people, and innovation necessary to meet and exceed our clients’ evolving needs.
Thomson Reuters supports partner programs and partner types created to fit customer and partner needs, while also serving to help you scale and grow your business. Partners are encouraged to leverage all programs that align with your business goals. From every angle, we've got you covered. 
Consulting Program
The Consulting Program is designed to help consulting and advisory organizations accelerate business, drive unprecedented growth and enhance customer experience. As a Consulting Partner you will have access to Thomson Reuters’ best in class go-to-market enablement and resources to enable you to expand business opportunities and best serve client needs across legal, tax, accounting, risk and fraud. 
Offers various go-to-market approaches allowing you to focus on the strategic priorities that best aligns to your business focus.
Joint alignment and regular engagements to shape your growth and business plans
Recognition and certification as an expert in Thomson Reuters solutions.
Technology Partner
As a Technology Partner, you gain access to Thomson Reuters’ best-in-class content, specialized technologies & APIs, and deep domain expertise across legal, tax, accounting, risk, and fraud. By collaborating with us through product integrations, joint development initiatives, OEM, co-selling, or reselling opportunities, you can expand your customer base and drive widespread adoption of your products.
Maximize your offerings by harnessing the power of Thomson Reuters’ industry content, technology, and expertise. Through partnership, you can optimize your products to deliver a comprehensive, seamless experience that exceeds customer expectations.
By combining expertise and resources with Thomson Reuters you can unlock new possibilities, differentiate your offerings, and gain a competitive edge in the market.
Partnering with us opens doors to a broader range of buyers and users. By aligning with our trusted brand and leveraging our established market presence, you can reach new customers and penetrate untapped markets. 
Courses for you and your clients
Marketplace and sales team access
Collateral, events, social media, and more
Access to sandbox environments, development opportunities
Access to large customer base 
Grow your business through partnership
Our comprehensive solutions work together to give companies both the tools and knowledge they need. Explore our products or contact us for more information today.
Get accurate sales, use & excise tax, VAT, and GST for your indirect tax calculations
Automate sales and use tax, GST, and VAT compliance in one simple software solution to improve accuracy of tax returns and filings
Manage the accurate tracking and validation of tax exemption certificates to reduce the risk of penalties.
Simplify your entire global trade management process with trade compliance information and facilitation tools that automate routine tasks, give you compliance confidence, and save time. 
File your U.S. corporate income tax return more quickly and accurately with the most trusted tax software on the market
Automate your corporate financial close and save time during the tax provision process
Support and training for all your transfer pricing needs
Powerful public records technology brings all key content together to provide intelligent analytics in one environment
Access a complete view of the risk of your subjects
Reach the peak of productivity with a seamless solution
The corporate legal industry's most widely used software for managing e-billing, matter management, and performance analytics
Confidently anticipate and navigate global regulatory compliance
Find out how to extend your business reach and expand your expertise through our partner network



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to technology, specifically AI, as it mentions 'generative AI capabilities' and 'advanced technology' in the context of legal research and business management tools. The discussion is detailed and explores the technical aspects of these tools, making it a key topic in the article. However, other themes, such as business and partnerships, also play a notable role, reducing its centrality."}]