
Biren expresses ‘regret’ for violence in Manipur

“I want to say sorry to the people of the State for what happened since May 3 last year [2023]. Many people lost their loved ones, many left their homes. I really feel regret and would like to apologise to all natives,” he told journalists in the State’s capital Imphal on Tuesday (December 31, 2024).
Mr. Singh claimed that the last three to four months had witnessed some progress towards peace. “Whatever happened has happened. We have to forgive and forget the past mistakes and make a new beginning for a peaceful and prosperous Manipur,” he said, adding that the “34, 35 recognised tribes” should live together in the future.
The Indigenous Tribal Leaders’ Forum condemned the “assault” and claimed that more than 30 women were injured during the “peaceful protest”. It asked the security personnel to cease their “intrusive operations” immediately and let the people celebrate the New Year in peace. “The government must stop being biased and take concrete steps to prevent such incidents and ensure that those responsible for the violence are held accountable,” the tribal organisation said in a statement.
The Neural Engine is a Neural Processing Unit designed by which company?

					Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
				
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is primarily about politics and social issues in Manipur, but it mentions the 'Neural Engine', a Neural Processing Unit, which is a computing concept. The discussion is detailed, but the focus is on the social and political aspects rather than the technical aspects of the Neural Engine. The computing concept is central to the article, but the article does not provide in-depth exploration of technical developments or policies related to the Neural Engine."}]