
			Over 150 illegal Malaysia-Thailand border crossings identified, require attention, says KSN			
Shamsul Azri says that as a result, the government is targeting to reduce and eventually close these illegal crossings or entry points. – Bernama photo
PASIR MAS (Jan 2): A total of 169 illegal crossings along the Malaysia-Thailand border have been identified as requiring attention, said Chief Secretary to the Government Tan Sri Shamsul Azri Abu Bakar.
He said that as a result, the government is targeting to reduce and eventually close these illegal crossings or entry points.
“Border control measures need to be enhanced, and it is important to reduce cross-border crimes and smuggling activities.
“I urge that the installation of CCTVs at the country’s entry points be expedited, and the use of artificial intelligence (AI) technology be implemented, as recommended by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim,” he said.
He spoke to reporters during the launch of the Malaysian Border Control and Protection Agency (AKPS) pilot operation at the Immigration, Customs, Quarantine and Security (ICQS) Complex in Rantau Panjang here yesterday.
Shamsul Azri said the use of AI technology in the country’s border control strategy is critical and necessary.
“The use of AI technology in border control, through the appropriate and optimal mechanisms, will help our officers monitor, assess, plan, and enforce responses to any form of threat or challenge faced at the country’s entry points and borders.
“For example, the coordination and analysis of data from CCTV and goods scanning machines at entry points equipped with AI technology will enhance the capability of officers in developing risk analysis at the entry points,” he said.
Shamsul Azri added that this proactive approach could assist border agencies in intercepting potential threats before they occur, thereby improving overall security at the country’s entry points and borders.
He explained that data driven by advanced AI algorithms, such as facial recognition and intelligent document processing, would streamline the process of inspecting individuals and goods by officers.
“This scenario will indirectly ensure that the clearance process for low-risk goods can be expedited.
“This is crucial for improving the competitiveness of the country’s ports and cargo terminals,” he said.
Earlier, Shamsul Azri inspected the operations of the border agencies at the Rantau Panjang ICQS Complex and observed the level of Sungai Golok at the Malaysia-Thailand border. – Bernama



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about border control and security, but AI technology plays a significant role in the discussion. The Chief Secretary to the Government highlights the importance of using AI technology in border control, mentioning its ability to enhance monitoring, assessment, and response to threats. He also explains how AI-driven data analysis can streamline the inspection process for individuals and goods, improving overall security and competitiveness of the country's ports and cargo terminals. The discussion lacks depth in technical aspects of AI, but its centrality to the topic is clear."}]