Robot at your service: Sweden to see trials of new form of food delivery in 2025
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.

                    Robots are becoming increasingly popular as the source of food delivery across the world as Sweden are latest to follow suit. Credit: Davobob, Twitter.                    
Could Scandinavia be showing us the new future of how we consume food? The lofty ambitions set out by Norwegian ‘Q-commerce’, or quick e-commerce brand Foodora Air aims to make food by GPS available to all Nordic customers by 2026, as it tests its robots and drones in Stockholm, Sweden.
Part of Berlin-based group Delivery Hero, Foodora currently uses bikes and cars to deliver food to customers in Scandinavia and Hungary, but its new plans will mean 5G is utilised to allow self-driving robots and drones to make delivery more seamless – and more carbon efficient.
The sustainability-focused project is backed by many, but the CEO of the organisation insists that challenges are bound to arise. “Our partnership with Tele2 in Sweden will help identify opportunities, challenges and physical obstacles we face in making Doora work as a viable and popular form of food delivery across Nordic markets.”
The all-weather drones created by the subsidiary group will be able to operate within a delivery range of 21km and features specialist systems such as a ‘wincher’ that will mean package collection and distribution will not need any additional infrastructure aid.
Stefan trampus, the vice-president of Tele2, the B2B company who supports Foodora in their latest efforts with crucial technology required to stimulate the devices, is largely confident about the proposed project. “We will be able to use robot delivery concepts to look at other industries and areas of use, and track how GPS functions to optimise solutions.”
With an exciting, albeit daunting future of AI technologies and robot design ahead for Sweden and for the rest of the world, we can expect many more revolutionary inventions to come as society gears up to become more efficiently organised.
Follow the latest news from across Sweden here.
Share this story
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!

                            .                        
Known as the PEOPLE’S PAPER, Euro Weekly News is the leading English language newspaper in Spain. And it’s FREE!
Covering the Almeria, Axarquia, Costa Blanca North, Costa Blanca South, Costa del Sol , Costa Calida, Mallorca and beyond, EWN supports and inspires the individuals, neighbourhoods, and communities we serve, by delivering news with a social conscience. Whether it’s local news in Spain, UK news or international stories, we are proud to be the voice for the expat communities who now call Spain home.
With around half a million print readers a week and over 1.5 million web views per month, EWN has the biggest readership of any English language newspaper in Spain. The paper prints over 150 news stories a week with many hundreds more on the web – no one else even comes close.
Our publication has won numerous awards over the last 25 years including Best Free Newspaper of the Year (Premios AEEPP), Company of the Year (Costa del Sol Business Awards) and Collaboration with Foreigners honours (Mijas Town Hall). All of this comes at ZERO cost to our readers. All our print and online content always has been and always will be FREE OF CHARGE.
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!
Download our media pack in either English or Spanish.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses the use of robots and drones for food delivery in Sweden, utilizing 5G technology and GPS for self-driving robots and drones. The project, led by Foodora, aims to make food delivery more seamless and carbon efficient. The article also mentions the use of specialist systems, such as a 'wincher,' and the potential for robot delivery concepts to be applied to other industries. The focus on technology and innovation in the article earns it an 8 out of 10 score for its relevance to computing and AI."}]