
Digital ecosystem helps boost Vietnam’s tourism growth

With over 78 million internet users and 73.3% of the population using social networks, Vietnam possesses an ideal environment to drive the development of a robust digital ecosystem and a thriving tourism technology sector.
Vietnam is considered one of the fastest-growing digital economies in ASEAN.
Experts said digital transformation initiatives launched by the Government, along with those adopted by the travel business community such as Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, virtual reality/augmented reality, big data, and other technologies are laying the foundation for remarkable innovations in the tourism sector.
Additionally, these technological solutions not only optimise visitors’ experience but also support stakeholders within Vietnam's tourism supply chain in operating efficiently and promoting efforts towards the goal of sustainable development.
Vietnam welcomed over 15.8 million foreign tourists in the first 11 months of the year, surging 41% compared to the same period of 2023. The country targets to welcome 17 - 18 million international visitors this year./
Copyright, VietnamPlus, Vietnam News Agency (VNA)
Editor-in-chief, Mr. Tran Tien Duan.
Licence No. 1374/GP-BTTTT dated September 11, 2008 by the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Tel: (+84 24) 3941.1349, Fax: (+84 24) 3941.1348
© Copyright belongs to VietnamPlus, VNA. Reproduction in any form is prohibited without written consent.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses Vietnam's digital ecosystem and tourism technology sector, highlighting the country's potential for growth with its high internet penetration and social media usage. Experts mention various technological solutions, including the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, virtual reality/augmented reality, and big data, which are driving innovations in the tourism sector and supporting sustainable development. Although the focus is on the tourism industry, the discussion is centered around the role of technology in this context, making it a dominant theme in the article."}]