
Delhi schools fare much better in digitalisation than national average, show Ministry of Education data

As Delhi schools kept adjusting their modes of teaching between online, offline or hybrid due to the pollution-related curbs, Ministry of Education annual data show that the percentage of city schools with digital facilities was significantly higher than the national average.
According to Unified District Information System for Education Plus (UDISE+) data, 99.1% of Delhi schools have functional desktops compared to 32.4% across the country. Assam had the least number of schools with functional desktops (12.8%), followed by Bihar (13.3%) and Jharkhand (17%).
Similarly, 60.9% of schools in Delhi had functional projectors while the national average stood at 20.3%.
For integrated teaching-learning devices, 37.3% of Delhi schools have the facility against 8.1% across the country. In this regard, Chandigarh tops the list with 42.2% while Meghalaya is at the bottom with 2.4%.
Seventy-four percent of Delhi schools have smart classrooms against the national average of 24.4%.
The UDISE+ report is based on voluntary uploading of data by schools across the country.
According to the report, private schools are leading government schools in digitalisation. For instance, 50.6% of private unaided schools and 43.1% of government-aided schools have mobile phones for teaching purposes in comparison to 30.2% of government schools.
Similarly, 45.9% of private unaided schools are equipped with integrated teaching-learning devices against 30.3% of government schools.
Moreover, 70% of government schools have smart classrooms, while in private schools, the percentage stood at 79.5.
Sudha Acharya, principal of I.T.L. Public School in Dwarka, said the pandemic fuelled the increase in digitalisation. “Teachers began innovating teaching as we were no longer confined to textbooks,” she said.
A government school principal, who did not wish to be named, said that although government schools have started receiving the facilities for online classes, some students still do not have devices to join classes online. “When online classes were announced in November, around 30-35% of his students failed to attend,” said Virendra Singh Yadav, a government school teacher in Delhi.

					Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
				
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily focused on the digitalization of schools in Delhi, comparing it to the national average. It mentions various digital facilities such as desktops, projectors, integrated teaching-learning devices, and smart classrooms, highlighting the significant gap between Delhi and other states. The discussion is centered around the technology used in schools, making it a key topic in the article."}]