USA: Biden Family Receives Lavish Gifts Worth Thousands
The CIA also saw significant gift exchanges, with a reported total value of over $132,000 in gifts received by agency employees.
In 2023, foreign leaders showered President Joe Biden and his family with an array of lavish gifts, according to the State Department’s annual report. The gifts, valued in the tens of thousands of dollars, were presented as symbols of diplomatic goodwill. Among the most significant gifts received was a stunning $20,000 diamond presented to First Lady Jill Biden by India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This gem was the most valuable gift bestowed upon any member of the Biden family during the year.
Other notable presents include a $2,400 collage from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, which added a personal touch to the Biden family’s collection of diplomatic gifts. From the Ukrainian ambassador to the United States, First Lady Jill Biden also received a beautiful brooch valued at $14,063. This exquisite piece of jewellery reflected the close relationship between the U.S. and Ukraine amid the ongoing war in the region. 
Meanwhile, Israeli President Isaac Herzog gave a $3,160 sterling silver tray, a nod to the longstanding diplomatic ties between the two countries. South Korea’s President Yoon Suk-yeol, who has since been impeached, presented the Bidens with a commemorative photo album valued at $7,100, capturing the importance of the relationship between the U.S. and South Korea.
The CIA also saw significant gift exchanges, with a reported total value of over $132,000 in gifts received by agency employees. Notably, CIA Director William Burns was presented with a unique $18,000 astrograph, a high-end telescope and astrological camera, adding an intriguing touch to the list of diplomatic tokens given to U.S. officials.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically Artificial Intelligence (AI), with a score of 8. The article mentions OpenAI's AI agent, Operator, capable of performing online tasks within a web, indicating that AI is a significant theme in the article. However, the discussion is not exclusively about AI, and other topics are also covered. The article provides some depth in discussing AI, but it is not the sole focus."}]