Musk replies to Starlink appeal from Pakistan user: ‘Waiting for approval’
0
Amid concerns in India over the alleged use of Starlink by militants, Elon Musk, who owns the satellite internet service, has revealed plans to start its operations in Pakistan.
"Starlink could connect millions to high-speed internet and unlock new economic opportunities," the user tweeted. Musk responded directly, stating, "We are waiting for approval from the government."
The government of Pakistan has been in discussions regarding Starlink’s entry for months, with ongoing deliberations about its regulatory and security implications. Shaza Fatima, the Minister of State for IT, informed the Senate Standing Committee on IT and Telecom on December 5, 2024, that efforts were underway to facilitate Starlink's entry, but regulatory approvals were pending. During Senate meetings, officials raised concerns about potential bureaucratic delays and national security implications.
The IT sector is growing fast in Pakistan, and with this, Starlink has the ability to connect areas with limited or no internet access. However, the Starlink timeline depends on the decision made by the government. Although it can greatly enhance internet access in rural and remote parts of the country, the government is focusing on national security and ensuring compliance with local rules. 
Subscribe to our Newsletter!

       
      By accepting cookies, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. 
    
    



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically satellite internet service Starlink, which is owned by Elon Musk. Computing plays a significant role in the article, as it discusses the potential of Starlink to connect millions to high-speed internet and unlock new economic opportunities. The article also highlights the regulatory and security implications of Starlink's entry into Pakistan, demonstrating a detailed discussion of technical and societal aspects. However, the focus is shared with non-technological topics such as national security and government approvals, preventing it from being a perfect 10."}]