Inspired by PM Modi's extraordinary grasp of tech & its impact: Vishal Sikka
New Delhi, Jan 4
Taking to social media platform X, Sikka informed that he met PM Modi and had a detailed discussion on artificial intelligence (AI) as well as its potential impact on India.
"It was a privilege to meet the Hon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a detailed and wide-ranging discussion on AI, its impact on India, and several imperatives for the time ahead," Sikka, founder of human-centered AI platform and products company Vianai Systems.
"I left the meeting both inspired and humbled by his extraordinary grasp of technology's impact on all of us, and how its use with democratic values can uplift everyone," he added.
Recently, PM Modi said that India aims to increase the use of AI in every sector.
"This is the era of AI, and the future of the world is linked with it. India is powered by two AIs. For the world, it is Artificial Intelligence, but in India, it's Aspirational India plus Artificial Intelligence. When the two meet, it accelerates India's growth," he said.
Meanwhile, India launched the IndiaAI mission in 2024, to enhance artificial intelligence-related developments in the country. The Cabinet also approved an allocation of over Rs 10,300 crore for the IndiaAI Mission, marking a significant step towards bolstering the AI ecosystem in the country.
Sikka was the chief executive and managing director of Infosys from 2014 to 2017. He was the first non-founder to helm the IT giant.
He resigned from the company in 2017, reportedly due to differences with the company's founders and board members.
Sikka has since been involved in various ventures, including his own AI startup, Vianai Systems founded in 2019.
💕 Found this article helpful? Spread the word and support us!

            South Korea: Presidential security officials snub police request for questioning        

            Diljit Dosanjh tells PM Modi that India can have bigger festival than Coachella        
Free Yearly Horoscope Reports For 2025



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about the discussion of artificial intelligence (AI) and its impact on India between PM Modi and Vishal Sikka. The article mentions various initiatives and allocations related to AI, such as the IndiaAI mission, indicating a significant focus on the topic. The discussion is not extremely technical but explores the societal and economic implications of AI, making it a well-rounded article about computing."}]