UK Faces Growing Missile Threats
A senior military source warned, “In 15 years, a ballistic missile will be able to hit Britain from anywhere in the world.”
NATO will formally urge Sir Keir Starmer’s government to prioritize investment in air and missile defence in its 2024 updated force requirements, known as the Capability Target 2025. Defence sources highlight growing frustration among NATO allies over the UK’s insufficient contribution to defensive shields necessary for Europe’s protection against long-range missile attacks.
An independent panel leading the UK’s strategic defence review, chaired by Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and General Sir Richard Barrons, has expressed deep concern over the country’s inadequate missile defence systems. The panel is expected to recommend urgent investment in Surface-Based Air Defence (SBAD) systems to protect critical infrastructure such as military bases and nuclear power plants.
The investigation highlights the escalating risks posed by advanced missile technologies from state and non-state actors alike:
A senior military source warned, “In 15 years, a ballistic missile will be able to hit Britain from anywhere in the world.”
The vulnerability of Britain’s overseas military installations was starkly illustrated during an October missile barrage by Iran against Israel, visible from the UK’s Akrotiri base in Cyprus. British personnel witnessed streaks of light across the Mediterranean as Iran launched 200 ballistic missiles. This event highlighted the lack of air defence systems at British bases, raising alarms about the potential for future attacks on critical infrastructure and intelligence facilities.
The UK’s reliance on its ageing fleet of Type 45 destroyers has exposed significant limitations in defending against ballistic missile threats. While Type 45 destroyers are equipped with the Sea Viper missile system, experts believe they are ill-equipped to handle more advanced threats posed by long-range and hypersonic missiles.
Land-based air defences are similarly underdeveloped:
In stark contrast, allies like the US and Israel have invested heavily in layered missile defence systems, including Israel’s Iron Dome and Germany’s £3.2 billion Arrow 3 system.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing because it mentions AI in the context of OpenAI's launch of Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. The discussion is in-depth, exploring the capabilities of AI in various fields. However, the article's main theme is about the growing missile threats and the UK's defense systems, making AI a secondary but significant topic."}]