
        Cybertruck Explosion at Trump Hotel Linked to U.S. Army SpecOps Sergeant, Pentagon Confirms
    
On New Year’s Day, a rented Cybertruck pulled in front of a Trump hotel in Las Vegas and seemed to explode. The explosion killed the driver of the Cybertruck and injured seven observers. The hotel was unscathed. Active duty U.S. Army Special Forces sergeant Matthew Alan Livelsberger had rented the Cybertruck earlier that day in Colorado before driving it all the way to Vegas.
Footage from security cameras and bystanders showed the explosion. According to authorities and witnesses, the Cybertruck parked in front of the entrance of the Trump International Hotel around 8:30 AM. Smoke poured out of the Cybertruck before it caught fire and detonated a mix of explosive material in its truck bed.
Videos of the explosion showed fireworks, smoke, and a huge burst of flame shooting through the glass at the top of the Cybertruck. Photos of the truck shown in the aftermath reveal the accelerants and explosive material in the bed. It was a tumbledown mix of mortar-style fireworks and fuel canisters.
In a press conference, Las Vegas PD Sheriff Kevin McMahill praised the build of the truck. “The fact that this was a Cybertruck really limited the damage that occurred inside of the valet because it had most of the blast. Up through the truck and out. You’ll see that the front glass doors at the Trump hotel were not even broken by that blast which they were parked directly in front of,” he said.
NEWS: Law enforcement officials said the Cybertruck actually helped contain the explosion.
The evil knuckleheads picked the wrong vehicle for a terrorist attack. Cybertruck actually contained the explosion and directed the blast upwards. 
This is stupid. We don’t yet know the motivation for the explosion or much about who is behind it. The construction of the Cybertruck didn’t save lives and the Trump International Hotel, the poor make of the “car bomb” did. On a scale of damaging car bomb explosions, what happened in front of the Trump hotel in Las Vegas is small. A mix of consumer fireworks and fuel canisters riding in the back of a glass-topped vehicle is designed to get attention, not cause damage.
The investigation into the event is ongoing. Livelsberger, a Colorado Springs native, rented the truck in Colorado on Wednesday morning. Surveillance from Tesla charging stations showed the truck’s journey from Colorado to Las Vegas. It appears that Livelsberger died in the Cybertruck during the fire.
Authorities are looking into a possible connection between Livelsberger, the Cybertruck, and an attack in New Orleans that killed 15 people. Hours before the Cybertruck caught fire, Shamsud-Din Jabbar drove a Ford F-150 into a crowd of partygoers in New Orleans and killed 15 people. Jabbar and Livelsberger both used an app called Turo to rent their vehicles. Both were U.S. Army Veterans.

          Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
        

          News from the future, delivered to your present.
        

      Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.
    

          A joke post on the Telegram channel for a right-wing paramilitary group reveals how the Russian internet is reacting to Elon Musks ‘salute.’
        

          The Space Council is seeking to provide oversight of new commercial space activities, a proposal that's not sitting well with companies like SpaceX.
        

          Things are getting really bad.
        

          More communities are considering blocking links to Musk's platfrom.
        

          The communications pause could be an early sign of things to come under a renewed Trump White House.
        

          The DHS’ acting director said that anyone who got canned is ‘welcome to reapply.’
        
Best of CES 2025 Awards ➜
Mode

                Follow us
              
Mode

                Follow us
              



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions the Cybertruck, an electric vehicle produced by Tesla, a company known for its computing and AI-related innovations. The discussion is primarily about the vehicle's design and its role in containing the explosion, rather than its computing or AI features. However, the article does touch on the use of Tesla's vehicles in a potential terrorist attack and the investigation into the incident, which may involve some computing-related aspects. The score is 8 because the article is mostly about the incident and its aftermath, with some minor references to the computing and AI-related aspects of the Cybertruck."}, {"uses": ["Electric vehicle", "Potential vehicle for terrorist attack"]}]