Powerful Strike: Drones Hit Military Airfield in Millerovo and Attack Taganrog
More than 30 explosions were heard.
On the night of January 5, explosions thundered in some cities of the Rostov region (Russian Federation) against the backdrop of drones being spotted in the region. The noise was loud, in particular, in the area of Taganrog, Tarasovka, and Millerovo, where the military airfield is located.
According to a representative of the regional authorities, "air defense is repelling an air attack" in the north of the region.
"UAVs were destroyed in the Millerovsky and Tarasovsky districts. According to operational data, there are no casualties. The military continues to repel the air attack," the local governor said.
Meanwhile, footage of drone attacks was published online. The publics write that Taganrog is allegedly under "a powerful attack" by drones, and claim that 13 UAVs have allegedly already been shot down.
They also report that, in particular, the military airfield in Millerovo is under attack.
Ukrainian monitoring channels indicate that the drone attack in Taganrog lasted more than two hours and during this time more than 30 explosions were heard there.
"The main result on the ground was recorded in the village of Novobessergenovka in the Neklinovsky district near the military airfield. There is a massive fall of debris here. Sources also report that a military airfield was hit nearby (47.195383, 38.867938)," the report reads.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing due to the mention of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs or drones), which are a form of artificial intelligence and computing technology. The centrality of the topic is high as the article focuses on the drone attacks and their consequences. The depth of discussion is moderate, exploring the technical aspects of drone technology and its implications, but lacking in-depth technical details or critical exploration of the social or economic aspects of AI or computing."}]