Navy now examining drone found in Masbate
NAVAL authorities have taken custody of an underwater drone and are now examining it to determine its functions and origins, the Armed Forces (AFP) said on Thursday.
The underwater drone was recovered by fishermen in the waters off San Pascual, Masbate, on December 30.
“The AFP confirms the turnover of a remotely operated submersible drone from the National Police to the Navy. The drone was recovered in the vicinity of San Pascual, Masbate, by local fishermen. The Navy is currently conducting further investigation to determine its origin and purpose,” the AFP Public Affairs Office director, Col. Xerxes Trinidad, said in a statement.
The drone was recovered by a certain Rodnie Valenzuela, 30, while fishing in the waters of barangay Iniwaran, San Pascual, along with other fishermen in the morning of December 30.
Valenzuela immediately turned over his find to the police officers manning the San Pascual Municipal Police Station.
“This incident underscores the importance of collaboration with local fisherfolk and maritime stakeholders. We commend their vigilance and continued support in reporting suspicious activities and encourage ongoing cooperation to ensure the effective monitoring of our territorial waters,” Trinidad said.
He also added that the military is committed to ensure the safety and security of the country’s vast maritime domain and will mobilize the resources needed “to address similar and other situations with the utmost diligence.”
Be the First to #KnowMore
Input your search keywords and press Enter.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically Artificial Intelligence, with a score of 8 because it mentions an underwater drone, which is a type of remotely operated vehicle (ROV) that utilizes computing and AI technologies. The article provides some depth in discussing the drone's functions and origins, but the focus remains on its recovery and investigation, making it a key topic with minor non-technological themes present."}]