Teckvia Limited and GLORIOUS SKY LLC Forge Deep Strategic Partnership for VolcMinerD1 Large-Scale Procurement


Ms. Xiao Guihua, co-founder of Teckvia, said,
“We are very pleased to have reached this strategic partnership with GLORIOUS SKY. The VolcMinerD1, with its outstanding performance and stability, will undoubtedly provide unprecedented value to more miners. We look forward to deepening our engagement with the North American market through this partnership.”
GLORIOUS SKY LLC, based in Texas, is a leading technology company focused on providing one-stop miner procurement and technical service solutions. This deep cooperation marks a further strengthening of GLORIOUS SKY’s strategic positioning in the cryptocurrency mining sector, particularly in the Dogecoin and Litecoin mining markets.
CEO Gao Ke of GLORIOUS SKY stated,
“Our collaboration with Teckvia is a key decision in the company’s strategic development. The VolcMinerD1, the highest-yielding air-cooled miner on the market, will significantly enhance mining efficiency and help GLORIOUS SKY stand out in the competitive market. We believe this move will further solidify our position in the global cryptocurrency mining market.”
This collaboration not only empowers both Teckvia and GLORIOUS SKY but also injects new vitality into the global cryptocurrency mining industry. As global interest in cryptocurrencies continues to grow, the demand for advanced, efficient miners is also rising. Both companies have stated that they will explore further areas of collaboration to meet the growing needs of miners worldwide. Through innovative solutions, they aim to help global miners maximize their profits.
Marketing and Public Relations Department, Teckvia Limited
January 25th, 2025
January 25th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
Copyright © 2025 MDD Group FZE LLC All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of MDD Group FZE LLC is prohibited.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is primarily about a strategic partnership between Teckvia and GLORIOUS SKY LLC for the procurement of the VolcMinerD1, a high-yielding air-cooled miner. The discussion revolves around the miner's performance, stability, and efficiency, indicating a significant focus on computing and cryptocurrency mining technology. While the article also touches on the business and market aspects, the centrality of computing to the topic is clear, with a moderate depth of discussion on the technical aspects of the miner."}]