10 Top States Embracing Or Avoiding Workplace AI In 2025
The researchers combined this with data from The Business Trends and Outlook Survey, which surveys businesses on their economic measures and expectations for future conditions, including AI usage. Based on these two factors, each state was scored out of 100 to determine which have the largest interest in AI adoption.
The analysis found that Mississippi scores just 3.56 out of 100 and is the state least interested in adopting AI for jobs and business. The state has only 4.42 monthly Google searches for terms related to using AI for business. A total of 3.10% of business owners estimate that they will adopt AI to produce goods and services in the next six months, while 1.7% of business owners used AI in their operations in the last two weeks.
It’s important to know the states embracing or avoiding workplace AI. It can make a big difference in your future career success. If you live in a state that embraces AI, you’ve hit the jackpot. But if you don’t, no matter what state you live in, you still can equip yourself with AI skills that will enable you to soar in your career.
One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. 
Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space.
Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain:
User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in:
So, how can you be a power user?



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about the adoption of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in workplaces across different US states, with a focus on the interest and usage of AI in business and job settings. The discussion includes technical aspects such as Google searches for AI-related terms, business owners' estimates of AI adoption, and the percentage of business owners using AI in their operations. While the article also touches on non-technological themes like career success and community engagement, AI is the dominant topic with detailed discussion of its implications and adoption rates."}]