Toyota aims to open its futuristic city near Mount Fuji this year
Subscribe
Today's print edition
Home Delivery
Toyota Motor plans to move in the first 100 residents of a futuristic city at the base of Mount Fuji in Japan by as soon as this fall.
"This year, residents will begin moving in as we slowly bring Woven City to life,” Toyota Chairman Akio Toyoda said at a news conference at CES in Las Vegas. "We aim to accelerate the pace at which new technologies can be tested and developed at Woven City.”
Toyoda debuted plans for the "living laboratory” five years ago as Toyota’s then-president, saying then it would be a fully sustainable city and real-world showcase for artificial intelligence, advanced robotics, self-driving cars and smart homes.
But it won’t be open to the wider public for at least two years, and Toyota’s chair said it may never be profitable.
"Will this Woven City make Toyota any money? Well, maybe not,” Toyoda said. "As global citizens, I believe Toyota has a responsibility to invest in our collective future.”
A key part of Toyota’s broader Woven initiative is a new software platform and vehicle operating system it calls Arene, which is designed to speed up car development and lower costs. It plans to deploy the system this year and make it a core component of its next-generation EVs starting in 2026.
Toyota appointed a new head of the wholly owned Woven subsidiary in 2023 as part of a shift from a research-heavy focus to become more involved in the production of next-generation vehicles.
Sponsored contents planned and edited by JT Media Enterprise Division.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses Toyota's futuristic city, Woven City, which will be a 'living laboratory' for artificial intelligence, advanced robotics, self-driving cars, and smart homes. The city is expected to be a real-world showcase for these technologies, and Toyota is investing in a new software platform called Arene to speed up car development and lower costs. While the article mentions that the city may not be profitable, the focus is on the technological aspects, making AI and computing a dominant topic with detailed discussion."}]