Applications Open for GovTech Lab’s Innovation Partnership with BnL until 31 January
Saturday, 25 Jan 2025
The Embassy of Japan in Luxembourg has announced several events involving demonstrations of knife sharpening...
On Friday 24 January 2025, Luxembourg's Ministry of Culture announced that the Government Council...
Luxembourg's Ministry of Sports, together with the Ministry of Gender Equality and Diversity, inaugurated...
...
...
...
Luxembourg’s GovTech Lab has announced the launch of its new innovation partnership with the National Library of Luxembourg (BnL), entitled “Bot4Lib”.
As part of the partnership, GovTech Lab is seeking applications for an innovative solution to automate the inventory of the reading room of the National Library of Luxembourg. Currently, inventories are carried out manually with the process taking an extended amount of time as well as requiring a large number of staff to be available to participate.
The solution envisaged by the partnership would integrate an autonomous robot with an intelligent document recognition system. This robot would navigate in public spaces, identifying each document using computer vision. The robot would then transmit the collected data to a management system, allowing the BnL staff to rectify any storage errors.
Economic operators who are interested in participating in “Bot4Lib” are accordingly invited to consult the call for solutions via the public procurement portal and to submit their application file by Friday 31 January 2025.
Japanese Knife Sharpening Displays Announced...
25 Jan, 2025 12:00
David Weis Appointed Director of National Institute for Archaeolo...
25 Jan, 2025 11:36
From Passion to Purpose Exhibition Celebrates Women in Sports...
25 Jan, 2025 11:30
S&P Confirms Luxembourg's "AAA" Rating...
25 Jan, 2025 11:22
Villa Baldauff to Reopen as Villa Pétrusse on 1 April...
25 Jan, 2025 11:13
Irîs Photographic Art Exhibitions Announced...
25 Jan, 2025 10:43
Israeli Cabinet Approves Gaza Ceasefire Accord, Due to Take Effect on Sunday
South Korea's President Yoon Attends Court Hearing on Extending Detention
Severe Cold Forces Trump Inauguration Indoors, 1st Time in 40 Years
Tens of Thousands Join Student-Led Protests in Belgrade
Strike Bowling Alley, Indoor Leisure Centre Opens in Howald
Subscribe Now



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically Artificial Intelligence (AI), as it discusses the development of an autonomous robot that integrates computer vision and an intelligent document recognition system to automate the inventory of the reading room of the National Library of Luxembourg. The article provides some depth in explaining the technical aspects of the solution, but the focus is mainly on the innovation partnership and the call for solutions. The computing concepts mentioned are central to the article's main theme, and the discussion is relatively in-depth, making it a score of 8."}]