Chicago Transit Authority Suspends X Accounts, Citing Declining Value
The Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) has decided to suspend its presence on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter, citing its reduced ability to effectively engage with riders. This marks a significant change for the CTA, which had long used the platform to share real-time updates on service delays, news, and other vital information.
As of Friday, the CTA’s two primary accounts on X—@cta and @ctaAlerts—have been marked as dormant. With over 287,000 followers, these accounts will no longer be updated, leaving passengers who used X for immediate service alerts in need of alternative sources. The CTA service alerts account now features a clear notice that it is no longer active, signaling the agency’s shift away from the platform.
A CTA spokesperson, Maddie Kilgannon, explained that the platform no longer serves the agency’s needs for communication with riders. “This social media platform no longer provides the value it once did for us to effectively reach and communicate with our riders,” Kilgannon said.
While the main accounts have been deactivated, the @CTARPM account, which focuses on updates related to the Red and Purple Line modernization project, will remain active until the completion of the project. This decision ensures that the project’s progress remains transparent for riders and other stakeholders.
The CTA is encouraging riders to sign up for real-time service alerts through its website, [TransitChicago.com](https://www.transitchicago.com). This allows passengers to receive customized notifications based on their preferred routes, ensuring they stay informed about any service disruptions or delays. For riders who do not need regular updates, the CTA assures that service alerts will still be available on its website.
Although the CTA is stepping away from X, it is not abandoning social media altogether. The agency will continue to engage with the public on other platforms, such as BlueSky, Threads, Facebook, YouTube, and TikTok, providing multiple ways for passengers to stay connected and informed.
The CTA’s decision comes amid growing concerns about the reliability of X, particularly under the ownership of Elon Musk. Critics have raised issues about the platform’s new algorithms, which they believe limit the visibility of important content and contribute to the spread of misinformation. While the CTA did not directly reference these concerns, its shift away from X reflects broader hesitations among organizations and public institutions about continuing to use the platform.
Musk’s changes to X, including altering the algorithm and modifying policies, have been contentious, with many users and companies questioning whether the platform still serves their communication needs. The CTA’s move aligns with this trend, as more and more organizations seek out alternative methods to reach their audiences.
For now, the CTA will rely on more direct communication channels to ensure riders stay informed. The agency’s decision to withdraw from X highlights a growing shift in how public agencies interact with their communities, especially as social media landscapes continue to evolve.

				Aspiring writer. Enjoys gaming, fried chicken and iced tea, preferably all together.			
In a move to return to traditional office settings, all federal agencies have been instructed to end remote work by the end of the week. The directive was...
Adidas and Puma, two of Germany's leading sportswear companies, are reportedly planning significant layoffs as they navigate global challenges and strive to enhance profitability. This decision comes in...
Nissan Motor Co. is reconsidering its U.S. electric vehicle (EV) expansion plans in response to evolving energy and trade policies under President Donald Trump’s second administration. The Japanese...
 © 2024 Techstory.in 
© 2024 Techstory.in
Login to your account below
Fill the forms bellow to register
Please enter your username or email address to reset your password.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically social media, as the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) suspends its presence on X (formerly Twitter) due to its reduced ability to effectively engage with riders. The article discusses the CTA's shift away from X and its decision to use alternative methods to reach its audience. The CTA's use of other social media platforms, such as BlueSky, Threads, Facebook, YouTube, and TikTok, is also mentioned. While the article does not delve deeply into technical aspects of computing, it highlights the evolving social media landscape and the challenges faced by public agencies in communicating with their communities."}]