US doors for Indian students closing? 97,000 careers hang by a thread as key path to H-1B faces heat
Feedback
Supporters of Donald Trump’s “Make America Great Again” movement now turned to the Optional Practical Training (OPT) program, a critical pathway for international students, particularly Indians, aiming for H-1B visas. 
The program, which allows students to work temporarily in the U.S., has become a flashpoint in debates over foreign workers and American jobs.
Indian students have embraced the program. In 2023-24, nearly 97,556 Indian students—29% of all Indian students in the U.S.—were enrolled in OPT, a significant rise from 69,062 the previous year. Engineering, math, and computer science are the most popular courses among these students, with many leveraging the STEM OPT extension.
Critics argue that OPT, especially the STEM extension, deprives Americans of job opportunities. In 2023, the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers (WashTech) challenged the program in court, alleging it undermines American workers. However, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the case, upholding a lower court ruling that validated the program.
The backlash stems partly from the program’s expansion during Barack Obama’s presidency, which increased the STEM extension from 29 to 36 months. MAGA supporters view this as a loophole allowing international students to take jobs meant for Americans.
The OPT program underscores broader debates about immigration, education, and employment in the U.S. With Indian students making up the largest international cohort, the program has become a lifeline for many pursuing careers in technology and engineering. 
Copyright©2025 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today
Add Business Today to Home Screen
Home
Market
BT TV
Reels
Menu
Menu



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses the OPT program, a critical pathway for international students, particularly Indians, aiming for H-1B visas in the US. Engineering, math, and computer science are the most popular courses among these students, leveraging the STEM OPT extension. While the article touches on broader debates about immigration, education, and employment, it centers around the role of OPT in providing a lifeline for Indian students pursuing careers in technology and engineering. The discussion lacks depth in technical details, but the topic is central to the article's theme."}]