
        Meta Smart Glasses First Big Cultural Moment Is a Terror Attack
    
Add to that list another grim cultural moment: a man who killed 14 people and injured 35 more staring at himself in the mirror of a rented room. Testing his new technology—a pair of Meta Ray-Ban smart glasses—which he’ll use to plot a terror attack.
The FBI-provided footage is almost 4 minutes long and has no sound. It’s five different clips from multiple sources, only the first two come from Jabbar’s glasses. In the first, he’s riding through the French Quarter on a bicycle on Halloween. In the second clip, Jabbar stares into a mirror, the Ray-Bans capturing his sweaty face.
The FBI video also included clips from security footage in the area showing Jabbar setting up for the attack. He’s wearing glasses in the videos. Jabbar placed two IEDs on the streets, which failed to detonate, and died in a shootout with police after exiting the F-150. The guns he used were purchased legally in Texas.
Meta and Ray-Ban launched their first pair of smart glasses back in 2021, but the product didn’t surge in popularity until a few years later. Other companies have attempted to market smart glasses before, but they’ve been failures. The most famous failure was Google Glass, a 2013 attempt by the tech giant to get people to put cameras on their faces.
Meta’s grand innovation in the smart glasses space is concealment. Ray-Ban is one of the most iconic and ubiquitous sunglasses brands in the world. Its Wayfarer is so popular that it’s inspired countless knockoffs. A passing glance at a pair of Meta glasses doesn’t register alarm in people. Unless you’re looking closely, they’re just glasses.
Ray-Bans are iconic and cool. They’re so ingrained into American culture that we don’t think about them when we see them. When Mark Zuckerberg approached the brand to host his smartglasses platform, he was borrowing the brand’s easy coolness.
It worked. And now anyone can be effortlessly cool while recording absolutely everything around them. And no one will bat an eye.

          Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
        

          News from the future, delivered to your present.
        

      Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.
    

          AR glasses: They're not just for hopeless nerds anymore.
        

          This year, it's all about the Galaxy S25 and S25 Ultra. However, will smart glasses be Samsung's "one more thing"?
        

          Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, and Tim Cook were all there.
        

          Bezos isn't the only billionaire ready to profit from the Trump shitshow.
        

          Nuclear reactors take a long time to build and Big Tech will use gas power to bridge the gap and meet its energy demands.
        

          The tech industry has come around to Trump after shunning him during his first administration.
        
Best of CES 2025 Awards ➜
Mode

                Follow us
              
Mode

                Follow us
              



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about Meta's smart glasses, specifically the Ray-Ban model, and their potential use in a terror attack. The technology mentioned is AI-powered smart glasses, which can record everything around the user without arousing suspicion. The article delves into the technical aspect of the product, its innovation in concealment, and its cultural impact. While other non-technological themes are present, the discussion of AI and computing is central and detailed."}]