PfizerGate: Ursula von der Leyen’s Vaccine Deal Under Corruption Probe
European Commission spokesperson Stefan de Keersmaecker said on January 5 that von der Leyen had canceled all "external engagements" in the coming days after contracting "severe pneumonia."
The New York Times described the European Commission President’s COVID vaccine deal with the Pfizer CEO as “a striking alignment of political survival and corporate hustle.”
In 2022, US media reported that von der Leyen had communicated with Albert Bourla, chief executive of the US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, about clinching a long-term contract to purchase 1.8 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines worth €35 billion ($37.6 billion), even before they passed clinical trials.
Negotiations on the deal were conducted informally in late 2020 via SMS messages and without prior consent of EU member states.
As a result, she has been accused of “usurpation of functions and title,” destruction of public documents, and high-level corruption charges that were initiated by Belgian lobbyist Frederic Baldan.
The first hearing on his complaint was held on 17 May 2024, when the Liege court confirmed that the so-called Pfizegate case is in line with its jurisdiction and should not be handed to the European Public Prosecutor’s Office (EPPO), created on the initiative of von der Leyen herself, due to an obvious conflict of interests.
The second hearing slated for December 5 was actually disrupted due to a demarche by the EPPO, which sent a counter-request to the court for von der Leyen’s immunity. The EPPO argues that von der Leyen has immunity from prosecution for corruption.
European Commission spokesperson Stefan de Keersmaecker said on January 5 that von der Leyen had canceled all “external engagements” in the coming days after contracting “severe pneumonia.”
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing due to the mention of artificial intelligence (AI) in the context of OpenAI's launch of Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. This represents a significant role in the article, but the discussion lacks depth and is not the primary focus. The article also touches upon AI in the context of AlphaFold, a protein-folding program, but this is a minor mention compared to the main theme of corruption and politics."}]