Fanning Flames of Fear: Media’s Dangerous HMPV Narrative Against China
While the world should, of course, remain vigilant and prepared for any potential public health threat, we must also guard against the toxic allure of xenophobia disguised as medical prudence.
Editorial 
The relentless media fervour surrounding the Human Metapneumovirus (HMPV) in recent weeks has illuminated an alarming trend: the systematic weaponisation of health concerns to fuel a wave of xenophobia, especially against China. A virulent storm of headlines has ignited, characterising this respiratory virus outbreak as a harbinger of another pandemic, echoing the harrowing days of COVID-19. In India, a resurgent, emotionally charged rhetoric in the mainstream press has subtly sought to paint China once again as the epicentre of a health crisis, as if historical shadows were being manipulated to suit a narrative of suspicion and fear. It is as though the fevered recollections of the 2020 outbreak were not yet enough, and a fresh wave of hysteria was needed to renew old hostilities.
The narrative constructed by these outlets is not only misleading but deeply insidious. For instance, images of packed hospitals and masked individuals from China flooded Western and Indian media, conjuring ominous parallels to the COVID-19 pandemic. This was not merely a case of reporting a global health concern—it was an attempt to create a self-perpetuating cycle of alarm. Yet, what the media failed to highlight was the sobering truth revealed by experts on both the local and international stage: HMPV, identified in 2001, has been circulating globally for decades, including in India, with no marked surge in unusual cases or mortality. The Union Health Ministry of India was swift to clarify that the virus was neither new nor uniquely virulent; it had long been part of the infectious landscape. Yet the seeds of doubt had already been sown.
As the inflammatory rhetoric spread like wildfire, a countercurrent of reason emerged from India’s independent media. Experts from leading institutions, such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, were quick to differentiate the HMPV from COVID-19, noting that this virus was not a novel threat to humanity. Unlike the pandemic virus, for which there was no prior immunity, HMPV has existed for decades and, by age ten, most children develop immunity to it. This crucial information, however, often went unreported in the sensationalised stories that focused on panic rather than prevention. Indeed, even the World Health Organisation, no stranger to global health crises, refrained from sounding alarms, underlining that the current uptick in cases was well within the expected seasonal variation of respiratory infections.
The narrative thus seems clear: HMPV is a regular, seasonal virus, with little to suggest it will ever pose the kind of existential threat COVID-19 did. But the media’s portrayal, especially through the lens of China, sought to stoke fear in a way that betrayed their own biases and, perhaps more dangerously, played into a broader, nefarious game of geopolitics. Why else would such a mild pathogen be used to fuel fears of Chinese culpability for yet another health crisis? And why, despite mounting evidence to the contrary, did the mainstream press in India and the West continue to latch onto this narrative, despite the clarifications issued by health experts? The answer lies, tragically, in the context of rising anti-China sentiment, where every issue, be it economic, political, or health-related, becomes an opportunity to tarnish the reputation of the People’s Republic.
We need to ask ourselves: what is the endgame of this manufactured hysteria? The truth is, the demonisation of China—already a potent tool in the geopolitical arsenal of many nations—is now being augmented by media narratives that weave together fear and misinformation. By framing a globally circulating virus as an exclusive threat from one nation, the media fosters an environment ripe for xenophobia and racial discrimination. If this continues unchecked, we risk sowing discord, creating divisions that reach beyond health into social and political spheres. Such stoking of panic, particularly when grounded in distorted or cherry-picked facts, can lead to the ostracisation of individuals based on their national origins, fuelling baseless hostilities.
Moreover, the more insidious consequence of this ongoing media frenzy is that it distracts from real issues, pushing vital concerns such as pandemic preparedness, equitable healthcare systems, and global cooperation further down the agenda. The outbreak of HMPV is an opportunity to learn from past mistakes, to strengthen health systems worldwide, and to foster greater international collaboration. But instead, we are confronted with a repetition of old tropes, a dangerous dance of fear-mongering that clouds the rational discourse necessary to combat future global health crises.
While the world should, of course, remain vigilant and prepared for any potential public health threat, we must also guard against the toxic allure of xenophobia disguised as medical prudence. The rise of HMPV in China is not a reason for renewed panic or hate. It is a reminder of the complexities of global health, where viruses don’t discriminate by nationality but affect humanity as a whole. Let us not squander this opportunity to combat the real virus of misinformation and division. The media, in both India and the West, has a responsibility to report with integrity, without descending into the toxic currents of fear. It is time to recalibrate our perspective: the true battle lies not in vilifying nations, but in uniting against the common foes of disease, ignorance, and hate.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is primarily about the media's portrayal of the Human Metapneumovirus (HMPV) and its relation to China, but it mentions OpenAI's launch of Operator, an AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. This brief mention of AI is relevant to the topic, but the discussion is relatively surface-level and lacks technical detail. The article's main focus is on the social and political implications of the media's narrative, rather than the technical aspects of AI or computing."}]