Taiwan to Build “New Silicon Valley” in Southern Region
The News Lens International is a Taiwan-based independent digital media, providing balanced reporting and thought-provoking opinions from Taiwan and all around Asia. 

                    Taiwan's Cabinet approved a plan to create a "Greater Southern New Silicon Valley," linking southern industrial hubs into a semiconductor corridor.
                  
On Thursday, the Executive Yuan, Taiwan’s Cabinet, approved plans from the National Science and Technology Council to turn several industrial hubs in Southern Taiwan into a semiconductor corridor which they dubbed a “new Silicon Valley.”
Officially, the government is calling it the "Greater Southern New Silicon Valley Promotion Plan." It is recognized by the government as one of six regional flagship projects.
The plan involves linking several industrial and science parks together including those in Tainan, Chiayi, Kaohsiung, and Pingtung to form an s-shaped corridor in the south. The government is set to rely heavily on the development and deployment of AI in its plans.
Premier Cho Jung-tai explained that they intend to make the most of the region’s existing industrial capacity not just in semiconductors but in biotechnology, medical devices, precision machinery, solar green energy, while expanding into areas such as space technology, drones and smart agriculture.
The efforts run in-line with President Lai Ching-te’s policy pronouncements to make Taiwan an “island of artificial intelligence." It hopes to usher in Taiwan’s entry into an era of AI applications.
To power the corridor, Su Chen-kang of National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) explained the need to connect regional power grids while making use of greener energy sources.
Likewise, he explained that the eight reservoirs in the drought-prone region will be connected to ensure water supplies for the residents as well as the factories. There are also plans to make use of more recycled water in the process.

        Are you over 18?
      



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically AI, as the Taiwanese government plans to develop a 'Greater Southern New Silicon Valley' that heavily relies on the development and deployment of AI. The article mentions AI as a key aspect of the plan to make Taiwan an 'island of artificial intelligence' and usher in an era of AI applications. The discussion is relatively in-depth, with a focus on the technical and societal implications of AI in the region."}]