INEC appeals for massive voter registration in Rukwa ahead of 2025 polls
The call was made at the Sumbawanga municipal hall by acting INEC’s Chairperson, Mr Adam Juma Mkina at the opening of the one-day sensitising seminar for stakeholders in elections on the update of the Permanent Voters Register (PVR) for the union elections.
The seven days’ exercise begins on Sunday 12 to 18 January 2025, in four regions of Rukwa, Njombe, Songwe and parts of Ruvuma. The registration centres will be opened at 08:00am in the morning and closed at 06:00pm in the evening.
Mr Mkina also asked stakeholders, political parties, faith-based organisations and NGOs to educate their followers on the importance of registering for voting.
This initiative is a continuation of the voter registration update launched by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa in Kigoma on July 20, 2024 and moved to Tabora, Katavi, Geita, Kagera, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Mara, Simiyu, Manyara, Singida and part of Dodoma Region.
According to Mr Mkina, until December 31 last year, INEC had completed the registration of voters on PVR in 19 regions of Rukwa, Njombe, Songwe, Ruvuma, Geita, Kagera, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Mara, Dodoma and Singida.
Other regions include Mjini Magharibi, Kusini Unguja, Kaskazini Unguja, Kusini Pemba in Zanzibar, Arusha and Kilimanjaro.
“Currently, two regions of Mbeya and Iringa are anticipating to complete the exercise tomorrow (today)” he added.
Mr Mkina explained that this time around registration is of its kind since it includes prisoners who meet the conditions for registering and voting as per amended laws.
According to the estimates by the commission based on the 2022 Population and Housing Census, approximately 3,391,017 voters are expected to be included in the Permanent Voter Register from the listed regions in the 2025 general elections.
However, coupled with this, INEC’s Acting Director of Election, Mr Martin Ngenyelwa said the number may increase.
Mr Ngenyelwa was representing INEC Director of Election, Mr Ramadhani Kailima at the meeting.
“This number could rise because there may be Tanzanians who were eligible to be registered as voters during the 2019/20 update but, for various reasons, did not register at that time,” Mr Ngenyelwa said.
INEC anticipates that the national update will add over five million new voters, raising the total PVR to approximately 34,746,638.
Out of these, 5,586,633 will be new voters, while 594,494 ineligible voters are expected to be removed.
This year’s PVR update features significant improvements in technology.
The introduction of new Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) kits, which are lighter and more efficient than previous models, is expected to streamline the process.
Moreover, the new Voters’ Registration System (VRS) allows voters to update their information online, facilitating easier adjustments to polling stations.
This year’s exercise will entail a total of 40,126 registration centres, with 39,709 located in Mainland Tanzania and 417 in Zanzibar.
Elaborating, Acting PVR and TEHAMA Director, Mr Innocent Cosmos said that voters can now update their information on the PVR online, following the introduction of the online Voters’ Registration System (VRS).
“Voters can now use their computers or mobile devices to change their polling stations if they have relocated to a different region or district,” he said.
The VRS has been designed to align with the current design of BVR kits that use Android software, unlike the previous BVR kits that used Microsoft Windows software.
“Despite the system being digitised, the improved kits have been reduced in weight from 35 to 18 kilogrammes,” he noted.
Moreover, according to the INEC after the update, the permanent voter’s register is expected to have a total of 34,746,638 voters.
The updating exercise with the use of upgraded Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) kits is meant to ensure smooth operation of the project.
Latest Posts



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is related to voter registration in Tanzania, with a significant focus on the use of technology, specifically Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) kits and the online Voters' Registration System (VRS). The discussion is detailed, exploring the improvements in technology, such as lighter and more efficient BVR kits, and the ability of voters to update their information online. The centrality of computing to the article's main theme is high, but the discussion lacks depth in technical aspects, resulting in an 8 out of 10 score."}]