A 20-Year-Old U.S. Army Soldier Has Been Arrested By Federal Authorities For Allegedly Breaching AT&T And Verizon Systems
In the past year, telecommunication systems have been exposed to critical vulnerabilities, such as hackers accessing sensitive information. This led to an overall mistrust and increased risk to privacy, especially with many big companies falling prey to cyber-attacks. It seems that not only telecommunication networks but also federal authorities are now actively pursuing the breaches and charging strict penalties against them. Now, a 20-year-old U.S. Army soldier has been arrested for being behind major breaches of AT&T and Verizon systems.
It is reported that even though the indictment documents do not give away any details on the hacking incident, Wagenius's mother, Alicia Roen, let the police know about her son's association with Connor Riley Moucka, who was an accomplice in the cybercrime. Moucka was apprehended back in October over accusations of stealing data from big companies by exploiting vulnerabilities in the cloud data company Snowflake, which these companies relied on for cloud data services. He, along with John Binns, was charged with stealing 50 billion AT&T user's text and call records.
The stolen data is said to have then been outsourced to other individuals, including John Wagenius. This could be the reason why he could not be directly linked to the serious hacking attempt on AT&T systems. Instead, he is facing charges for obtaining the information unlawfully and attempting to share the records. The arrest also highlights how cybercrime operations tend to work where stolen information is often shared and distributed across multiple networks, raising even deeper concerns regarding data theft and the potential risks it brings about.
Some posts on wccftech.com may contain affiliate links. We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC
				Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn
				advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com
© 2025 WCCF TECH INC. 700 - 401 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about a cybercrime operation involving the breaches of AT&T and Verizon systems, which is heavily related to computing and technology. Although the article does not delve deeply into technical aspects, it discusses the vulnerabilities in cloud data services and the sharing of stolen information across multiple networks, indicating a significant role of computing in the topic. However, the focus is shared with non-technological aspects like the arrest and charges against the individuals involved."}]