
            How to Unblock and Watch Pornhub in South Carolina
        
The New Year brought some turbulence amidst porn lovers in the USA. You’re not alone if you woke up on the 1st of January only to find that you can’t watch Pornhub in South Carolina. What’s more, this doesn’t end on Pornhub; more adult sites are on the “blacklist”.
What’s happening and why people can’t watch Pornhub in South Carolina suddenly?
Like Pornhub, they’ll have to leave! For many, giving up on enjoying Pornhub in South Carolina isn’t an option, so they’ve all gathered here. Including you. Let’s see how to access all porn sites in this state and enjoy adult content limitlessly, using a Virtual Private Network.
Table of Contents
A simple and fast trick to watch Pornhub in South Carolina is by using a VPN.
Unblock Pornhub with NordVPN
Before we move on to our detailed guide, we’ll briefly refer to the so-called House Bill 3424.
The authorities want to protect children from pornography and truly, we applaud them for that.
House Bill 3424 is the same law but under a different name. Most parents, including our team, respect the law and praise it but some adults want to enjoy themselves without having to verify their age, and by extension, expose their identity to porn sites.
Watching Pornhub in South Carolina is impossible because of this and nothing else.
Without it, the problem of not being able to access Pornhub in South Carolina will persist.
This brings us to the much-needed solution to the problem.
Can you, despite the annoying situation, watch Pornhub in South Carolina somehow?
Yes, with a VPN service!
For now, let’s see how to subscribe to it. First, click the button below to go to its website.
Subscribe to NordVPN Here
Once you’re done, follow these steps:
Immediately after accessing the site, you can enjoy all the videos and other features without verifying your age. Pornhub will work in South Carolina as if you were somewhere else. You can even sign in to your account and keep using the website as you did previously.
As said, you can perform this on any other device – we used a Windows PC for convenience.
To be clear, we recommended a VPN because it’s the most effective workaround.
Just be aware that this solution is insecure and doesn’t use tunneling like a VPN. You’ll also come across heavy logging and unstable connections that will ruin the experience. Free web proxies aren’t made for speed and stability and are far inferior to the likes of NordVPN.
Tor is just a Firefox-based browser with unfulfilled promises of anonymity. Tor nodes are unreliable and often penetrated by mid-level hackers. The browser is also slow and doesn’t let you pick the virtual location, making it hard to access Pornhub in South Carolina in 2025.
Some issues are complicated. Some less. This one is by far the simplest you’ll encounter.
Bypassing the South Carolina porn ban is easy once you grab a proper VPN. It’ll ensure privacy and security while pouring speed and unlimited bandwidth in the already feature-saturated glass that these three providers offer:
We won’t discuss NordVPN too much, as we’ve covered everything you need to know today.
A no-log policy is a must-have for enjoying porn in South Carolina. NordVPN keeps nothing on its RAM servers and has Deloitte and PwC to back up the claim. The provider offers impressive speeds as well, enabling 4K Pornhub streaming without a second of buffering.
See Price At NordVPN
ExpressVPN is a one-of-a-kind VPN with attention to user experience and privacy.
See Price At ExpressVPN
People in South Carolina and the US in general are fond of Private Internet Access.
For one, the VPN has servers in all 50 states. Two, it’s incredibly safe, with a no-logging policy verified in court and audited by Deloitte. Its infrastructure is built like a tank, housing 256-bit encryption, a robust kill switch, and many Multi-hop servers for added encryption.
See Price At Private Internet Access
Despite the ever-spreading pornography restrictions across the USA, you can keep up with your favorite porn stars by using a VPN. There’s nothing philosophical about it. Connect to a VPN server abroad to alter your online location. In doing so, all adult sites will work.
While NordVPN is at the top of the “food chain”, other VPNs can be beneficial as well.
The editorial team did not participate in the creation of this guide. Gizmodo may earn a commission when you buy through links on the site.
Mode

                Follow us
              
Mode

                Follow us
              



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses a solution to access Pornhub in South Carolina using a Virtual Private Network (VPN), which is a computing concept. The article explains how to subscribe to NordVPN, a VPN service, and use it to bypass the South Carolina porn ban. The discussion includes technical details about VPNs, such as no-log policies, RAM servers, and 256-bit encryption, which indicates a moderate depth of discussion. However, the focus is primarily on the solution to the problem rather than the technical aspects of computing."}]