306-938-9800
Saskatoon is home to North America’s first and only facility producing rare earth metals at a commercial scale, with in-house technology developed by the Saskatchewan Research Council. CEO of the SRC, Mike Crabtree, states that the processing facility is expected to be fully operational early next year (2025), producing about 400 tonnes of rare earth metal used for magnets which help to power electric motors, wind turbines and electric vehicles, to convert electrical energy into motion.
The goal of this project is to establish a vertically integrated supply chain in Saskatchewan, to be an industry model for future Rare Earth Element resource expansion. Crabtree says, “What we’re looking to do is expand the sector here in Saskatchewan and in Canada as a whole, creating these very, very high value, high trained jobs, that are augmented by artificial intelligence which allows us to remain and be competitive.” Vertically integrated means the processing, the solvent extraction and metal smelting are done at the facility, rather than shipping them elsewhere to convert the elements into a metal before going to market. Right now, only China has the ability to do this.
The Vice-President of SRC’s Rare Earth Element Division, Dr. Muhammad Imran, states that the staff is diverse with a variety of fields of expertise needed. They have chemical, mechanical, and electrical engineers, and in the trades, they have millwrights, electricians and pipefitters, and there are scientists on site. The facility is also in talks with local colleges to equip students with the skills needed in rare earth processing.
He notes that no one has done this before in the country, so they are looking into the curriculums of colleges, so there will be trained staff who can be employed in the rare earths field in the future, as the industry grows. SRC is Canada’s second-largest research and technology organization, providing services and products to its 1,400 clients in 22 countries around the world for more than 77 years.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about a rare earth metal processing facility, but AI is mentioned as a factor in maintaining competitiveness and creating high-value jobs. The discussion is detailed, and AI is central to the article's theme, although it is not the exclusive focus. The article provides some depth in exploring the role of AI in the industry, but other themes, such as the facility's operations and the need for skilled workers, also play a notable role."}]