DRC: North Kivu Hospital overwhelmed by increasing number of wounded
   In a message on X, Jaishankar confirmed the meeting, during which they continued talks related to deepening bilateral, regional, and global cooperation. “We value the openness of our meetings over the past four years. We appreciate his contribution towards forging a closer and stronger India-US relationship,” he wrote.
   Sullivan is visiting India two weeks before Donald Trump takes office, having recently threatened to raise tariffs on India.
   The Press Trust of India (PTI) noted that one of the most important measures to expand bilateral ties was the initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology or iCET, which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and outgoing President Joe Biden in May 2022 aiming for greater collaboration in areas of critical technologies such as artificial intelligence, semiconductors, biotechnology, and defense innovation.
   During his current visit to India, Sullivan will also hold wide-ranging talks with his counterpart Ajit Doval to review progress in cooperation under iCET and bilateral defense engagement.
   The Indian media outlet noted that in terms of defense, India and the US have seen a significant rebound in the last four years, 
   In October, the two nations signed a mega deal to buy 31 long-range US Predator drones under the foreign military sales route at a cost of nearly $4 billion, the source said and added that India is also buying high-altitude, long-range Sea Guardian and Sky Guardian drones capable of carrying missiles and bombs.
   Sullivan’s trip to India comes days after a six-day tour of the United States by Jaishankar.
 jrr/llp/jcm/lrd
Web Site developed by IT Division  Prensa Latina.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically Artificial Intelligence (AI), as it mentions the initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology (iCET) which aims for greater collaboration in areas of critical technologies such as AI, semiconductors, biotechnology, and defense innovation. The discussion is detailed, with a focus on the progress and implications of this initiative in the context of bilateral ties between India and the US. While other themes, such as defense and trade, are also present, computing and AI are the dominant topics."}]