Biden’s Offshore Drilling Ban: A Shift in U.S. Energy Policy
Biden announced an official ban on drilling oil and gas wells offshore off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United States
by Our Economic Affairs Editor 
On the eve of his final moments in office, President Joe Biden implemented a sweeping ban on oil and gas drilling in over 625 million acres of federal waters along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. This bold move, grounded in a 72-year-old act of Congress, has sparked fierce debate between environmental advocates and the energy sector, setting the stage for a political battle that could ripple across U.S. energy policy for years. While the ban is seen by many as a crucial step in fighting climate change, it has also raised questions about the nation’s energy future and the economic impact on coastal communities.
Biden’s decision to restrict oil and gas drilling comes as part of his broader climate agenda, which seeks to reduce fossil fuel dependence and promote cleaner, renewable energy sources. However, the ban has not been without controversy. President-elect Donald Trump, who has long championed the expansion of U.S. energy production, wasted no time in declaring that he would “unban” the restrictions immediately upon taking office, emphasizing his commitment to energy independence and job creation in the fossil fuel sector.
When Donald Trump assumed the presidency in 2017, his administration sought to reverse many of Obama’s environmental protections, including those related to offshore drilling. Trump issued an executive order to open up vast areas of the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans to exploration, much to the dismay of environmental groups and coastal states. The Trump administration also sought to streamline permitting processes and reduce environmental regulations, arguing that such actions would boost domestic energy production and reduce dependence on foreign oil.
While Trump’s efforts to expand offshore drilling were met with legal challenges, including resistance from coastal states and environmental organizations, his administration succeeded in rolling back some Obama-era restrictions, paving the way for future offshore drilling in previously protected areas.
Upon taking office, President Biden quickly sought to distance himself from Trump’s pro-energy policies. As part of his broader climate agenda, Biden issued a temporary halt on new oil and gas leases on federal lands and waters. In a major policy shift, Biden announced a permanent ban on drilling in over 625 million acres of federal waters along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. The decision, which was made just days before Trump’s term expired, has faced strong opposition from the oil and gas industry, as well as Republican lawmakers, who argue that it could hurt U.S. energy security and lead to job losses.
Biden’s use of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to implement the ban has raised questions about its long-term viability. Given that the ban was enacted through a 72-year-old law, reversing it would likely require Congressional action, making it a complex and contentious issue for future administrations. Trump, during his campaign for re-election, vowed to “unban” the restrictions immediately, signaling a return to more aggressive offshore drilling policies if he were to win a second term.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically Artificial Intelligence (AI), as it mentions OpenAI's launch of Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. However, the article's main focus is on U.S. energy policy and President Biden's ban on offshore drilling. The discussion of AI is relatively surface-level, but it is a significant aspect of the article, and the article provides some depth in exploring the intersection of AI and science, as seen in the mention of AlphaFold. Overall, the article scores an 8 out of 10 in terms of its relation to computing."}]