Omni-Channel Marketing: The key to thriving in a fragmented media landscape
AdNews Newsletter
Shai Luft.
Australia’s media landscape is undergoing seismic shifts. From the rise of TikTok and streaming platforms like Stan and Binge to the growing influence of digital audio and personalised media consumption, the way Australians consume content is evolving. For CMOs, these changes represent both a challenge and an opportunity: to adapt to a fragmented media environment while navigating the regulatory, technological, and consumer-driven forces reshaping the marketing playbook.
An omni-channel marketing strategy—one that integrates platforms ranging from social media to search, audio, BVOD and beyond—is no longer optional. It’s the key to staying competitive in a dynamic landscape where over-reliance on traditional pillars like Google is becoming a riskier proposition.
Google’s dominance in digital advertising has long made it a central component of Australian marketing strategies. Yet regulatory pressures, including calls to divest Chrome and limit Google’s advertising monopoly, are pushing the industry toward change. While these developments aim to increase competition, they also create uncertainty for brands deeply entrenched in Google’s ecosystem.
For Australian CMOs, now is the time to diversify. Shifting budgets to programmatic networks, leveraging streaming platforms, and embracing emerging players like TikTok or Spotify allows brands to reduce their reliance on Google and future-proof their campaigns. These platforms offer not only resilience but also new ways to connect with audiences in contextually relevant and creative ways.
Australia’s privacy regulations are tightening, with proposed reforms likely to increase transparency requirements and limit how brands can collect and use consumer data. These changes, alongside the global phasing out of third-party cookies, demand that CMOs rethink their targeting strategies.
An omni-channel approach plays a vital role in navigating this landscape. First-party data will become a cornerstone of success, requiring brands to build meaningful relationships across multiple platforms. Leveraging customer data from loyalty programs, social interactions, and email marketing, combined with contextual targeting on streaming and programmatic platforms, ensures campaigns remain effective even in a privacy-first world.
The rise of artificial intelligence is transforming digital media. From predictive analytics to creative generation, AI tools are enabling marketers to deliver hyper-personalised campaigns, at scale. For CMOs, AI is not just a tool for optimisation—it’s a pathway to innovation.
AI-driven tools can:
The integration of AI within an omni-channel framework allows Australian brands to connect with consumers more intelligently and efficiently, offering a competitive edge in a crowded marketplace.
As Australia’s media landscape continues to fragment, consumers are interacting with brands across an ever-widening range of touchpoints. A single-channel strategy risks missing large portions of the audience, while siloed efforts fail to deliver the seamless experiences today’s consumers expect.
An omni-channel approach offers:
In 2025, the Australian marketing landscape will be shaped by rapid technological advances, evolving privacy regulations, and shifting consumer expectations. For CMOs, the imperative is clear: embrace omni-channel marketing as a strategic priority.
The brands that succeed will be those that go beyond simply being present across platforms—they will integrate data, AI, and creativity to deliver seamless, impactful campaigns tailored to Australian audiences. In a world of constant change, omni-channel strategies provide the agility, resilience, and innovation needed to thrive.
For CMOs, media diversification isn’t just a trend — it’s a necessity. Reducing dependence on legacy platforms like Google, leveraging AI for smarter campaigns, and preparing for a privacy-first future are the keys to unlocking sustained success in an increasingly complex landscape.
The time to act is now.
Shai Luft, co-founder and COO Bench Media
We acknowledge the Traditional Custodians of country throughout Australia and their connections to land, sea and community. We pay our respect to Elders past and present and extend that respect to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about omni-channel marketing, but AI is discussed as a key tool for marketers to deliver hyper-personalised campaigns and connect with consumers more intelligently and efficiently. AI-driven tools are mentioned, and their integration with an omni-channel framework is highlighted as a competitive edge. The article also touches on the impact of AI on digital media and its potential for innovation. However, the focus remains on the marketing strategy and its implementation, rather than a deep technical discussion of AI."}]