Pinoys know cryptocurrency but don’t understand it–poll
CRYPTOCURRENCY awareness is exceptionally high in the Philippines, with 96 percent of respondents having heard of it, according to blockchain and Web 3 software company Consensys Software Inc. (Consensys).
Nevertheless, the company’s annual study pointed out that only 46 percent understand how it works. The Fort Worth, Texas, USA-headquartered firm added that Filipinos generally view crypto with the “future of money” (45 percent) and an alternative to traditional financial systems (36 percent), though concerns about misuse are increasing, with 20 percent linking it to crime and money laundering.
At present, Vietnam and the Philippines are tied at third in terms of crypto ownership at 54 percent behind Nigera (73 percent) and South Africa (54 percent) Meanwhile, India is at the fourth spot with 52 percent. More respondents in Asia and Africa plan to invest in crypto assets in the next 12 months.
It noted there was also an increase in of global participation in Web3 activities, such as minting NFTs, owning tokens, and using wallets this year, one-third of those familiar with Web3 now use wallets, the understanding of Web3 remains limited globally. Nigeria (61 percent) and South Africa (48 percent) lead in familiarity, showing significant growth, while awareness is lowest in Japan, South Korea, and Europe.
In the Philippines, awareness of Web3 (a decentralized Internet) and non-fungible tokens (NFT) also remain low at 28 percent and 37 percent, respectively. Although blockchain is generally understood more than Web3 or NFTs, a lot of respondents think it is still a challenging concept for many.
A significant 80 percent of respondents globally believe that web2 companies have too much power, with Nigeria (11 percent) and Japan (8 percent) being notable exceptions. Despite this, familiarity with the concept of decentralization remains low worldwide. In the US, however, more than half of respondents (58 percent) are very familiar with decentralization, and other countries that report high levels of understanding include the Philippines (53 percent), India (66 percent), Indonesia (51 percent), Nigeria (80 percent) and South Africa (74 percent).
When asked how decentralization relates to cryptocurrencies, blockchain, and web3, only Nigeria, South Africa, and Indonesia showed notable familiarity. Nonetheless, over one-third of respondents globally believe that social media platforms and international banking could benefit from decentralization. This shows a unique disparity between a desire to integrate blockchain into modern traditional systems, despite a perceived lack of understanding, and suggests that the education gap persists.
As a follow-up to the initial report published in 2023, Consensys expanded the scope of the survey, reaching over 18,000 individuals aged 18-65 in 18 countries, including the Philippines.
With a mix of identical questions from the previous survey designed to gain an understanding of changing sentiment, and new questions aimed at addressing current themes and trends, the survey explores topics such as data privacy, awareness, ownership and web3 activity, decentralization, timely news events like the approval of spot crypto ETFs, and the intersection of artificial intelligence (AI) and blockchain.
The results, broken down to showcase geographic trends, offer valuable insights into the public’s understanding and perceptions of web3, crypto, and decentralization while revealing ongoing challenges and opportunities for education and adoption.
Rizal Raoul S. Reyes has covered technology, science, business, property and special reports. He had working stints with the Business Star, Manila Bulletin and Independent Daily News.
Be the First to #KnowMore
Input your search keywords and press Enter.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about cryptocurrency awareness and understanding in the Philippines, but it also explores the intersection of artificial intelligence (AI) and blockchain, indicating a significant role of computing concepts in the discussion. However, the focus remains on cryptocurrency and its related topics, with AI being a minor yet relevant aspect."}]