
        Samsung Will Reveal Its Newest Smartphones on January 22
    
Pre-Order at Samsung
We are waiting to see what Samsung will do next with its flagship series. Apple and Google’s latest releases have been relative hits since their debut last summer, so the stakes are high. Even though Samsung was the first to introduce artificial intelligence as a value-add on a premium smartphone, it doesn’t have Google Gemini to piggyback on like last year’s Galaxy S24 release.
The company has already told us that the Galaxy S25 series is nigh in a press release many months back. But we know nothing about its insides or what it purports to do. We can only assume it will have the newest Qualcomm chip, scaled up for Samsung’s devices. There will likely be thinner bezels, a larger display, and flatter corners, as has been the trajectory with the Ultra series. Some rumors say that the Galaxy S25 on the factory line resembles the iPhone, from which Samsung has spent years differentiating itself. Funny enough, so does the Google Pixel 9 lineup. Is this where everyone in Android land is headed? As for the other models, a smaller Galaxy S25 is expected to match the screen size of Apple and Google’s lineups. A smaller display could mean an easier-to-carry device with all the goods of its larger flagship brethren.
Leaks Show Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra Looking a Lot Like an iPhone
Now that we have an official date, rumors will likely start to pick up. Samsung is still heavily relying on artificial intelligence to drive the excitement forward. The teaser video published alongside the Galaxy Unpacked announcement starts with someone waking up and asking a digital assistant to put “Galaxy Unpacked” on the calendar. Samsung will have to prove to its users that Galaxy AI isn’t just a gimmick, the way Bixby fell on us after it failed to deliver up to par with the Google Assistant.
What to Expect From Samsung’s Galaxy Unpacked S25 Event
If you’re the kind of Samsung fan who can pre-order a device without knowing what’s next, the company hopes to lure you in with a $50 credit on a reserve from now until launch day on January 22. Samsung offers up to $900 credit on trade-ins, so think about the gadget in your arsenal that could help reduce the cost. Last year’s Galaxy S24 devices ranged from $800 to $1,300 for the Galaxy S24 Ultra. It’s likely to be priced around the same range this year or higher, with all the tariffs and increasing costs.
Pre-Order at Samsung

          Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
        

          News from the future, delivered to your present.
        

      Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.
    

          The Galaxy S25 Ultra's stylus is lighter because it doesn't do as much.
        

          Another phone ended up being the "one more thing" at Galaxy Unpacked, but we know nothing about it other than it's thin.
        

          Samsung debuted the Galaxy S25, S25+, and S25 Ultra at its Galaxy Unpacked conference, though we still have yet to see its AR glasses.
        

          Samsung's big push for wearable AI is a pair of glasses, the more mobile version of its 'Project Moohan' AR headset.
        

          There's no stylus or four cameras, but they've got all the AI fixings, plus a base of 12GB of RAM on both Galaxy S25 models.
        

          The Galaxy S25, S25+, and S25 Ultra all feature rounded corners and minuscule bezels, but the real standout is the “cross-app AI” agent.
        
Best of CES 2025 Awards ➜
Mode

                Follow us
              
Mode

                Follow us
              



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about Samsung's upcoming Galaxy S25 series smartphones, which heavily rely on artificial intelligence (AI) for value-add. The company's focus on AI is evident in the teaser video and the mention of 'cross-app AI' agent. The discussion explores the technical aspects, such as the newest Qualcomm chip, thinner bezels, and larger displays, as well as the societal implications of relying on AI. However, the article also touches on other non-technological themes, like the pricing and trade-in offers, which slightly reduces its centrality to AI."}]