South Korea’s Jeju Island to Launch NFT-powered Visitors Card
South Korea’s Jeju Island to launch NFT-powered Vistor Card later this year
Beyond the digital upliftment, this new development will give the region, Jeju Island is also trying to encourage young people to explore the place. It also intends to use this as a medium to increase the likelihood of return visits. The card issuance will kick off in the second half of 2025, starting with a pilot program for domestic visitors.
In addition to this launch, a plan is to integrate this NFT project with the Tamna Jeon, the local blockchain-based stablecoin. This token has existed since 2019 and helps to support the local economy. It is utilized for rechargeable prepaid cards that incentivize merchants and customers.
The blockchain that will power this digital collectible card remains unknown.
In 2019, the island debuted the Blockchain Hub City Development Research Service to explore advanced blockchain applications. Within two years, it had successfully expanded its initiatives across the public sector in areas such as traffic management systems and VAT refunds for foreign tourists.
These new initiatives come as the island seeks to expand the crypto ecosystem based on its jurisdiction. Jeju Island Governor Oh Young-hoon says:
“This year, we are gradually making preparations to focus on digital transformation. The core of all this is Web3. We can apply Web3, including the use of NFTs, to all areas of the government. This will be a step forward.”
Jeju Island has put effort into crypto-powered growth but has met with obstacles on the way. Most of these challenges are attributed to the strict regulations surrounding Initial Coin Offering (ICO) and NFTs in South Korea. However, the authorities in this region are now pushing for a change.
The regulator became more concerned about digital collectibles like cryptocurrencies, especially those easily traded and exchanged. In a short while, this stance forced some NFT-based businesses in South Korea to fold up.
Benjamin Godfrey is a blockchain enthusiast and journalist who relishes writing about the real life applications of blockchain technology and innovations to drive general acceptance and worldwide integration of the emerging technology. His desire to educate people about cryptocurrencies inspires his contributions to renowned blockchain  media and sites.
Godfrey Benjamin on X
Julia Sakovich on X
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 23rd, 2025
Copyright © 2025 MDD Group FZE LLC All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of MDD Group FZE LLC is prohibited.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is related to computing, specifically blockchain technology, with a focus on its application in the real world. The article discusses the use of NFTs, blockchain-based stablecoins, and Web3 in the context of Jeju Island's digital transformation. While the article does not delve deeply into technical aspects, it explores the regulatory and societal implications of these technologies. The centrality of computing to the article's main theme is high, with a detailed discussion of its applications and potential impact."}]