Kyodo News Digest: Jan. 25, 2025
The following is the latest list of selected news summaries by Kyodo News.
----------
Japan marks 1 year since deadly collision at Tokyo's Haneda airport
TOKYO - Japan on Thursday marked one year since a deadly collision at Tokyo's Haneda airport between a landing Japan Airlines jetliner and a coast guard plane taxiing for takeoff, which mistakenly entered the same runway.
The collision on the evening of Jan. 2 killed five of the six people aboard the Japan Coast Guard's Bombardier DHC-8-300, while all 379 people aboard the JAL Airbus A350 escaped despite flames engulfing the plane.
----------
At least 15 killed, dozens injured in New Orleans truck attack
NEW YORK - At least 15 people were killed and dozens injured in a suspected terrorist attack when a pickup truck was driven into a crowd in a popular tourism spot in New Orleans, Louisiana, early Wednesday, according to local police and media reports.
The suspect, identified as 42-year-old Shamsud-Din Jabbar, a U.S. citizen from Texas, died following a shootout with the police after he plowed the vehicle through people who were celebrating New Year's Day on Bourbon Street around 3:15 a.m., the police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation said.
----------
Japan emperor wishes for peaceful year in New Year's address
TOKYO - Emperor Naruhito offered greetings Thursday in his New Year's address, expressing hope for a peaceful year while voicing concern for people affected by natural disasters.
Accompanied by his wife Empress Masako and other members of the imperial family, the 64-year-old emperor waved to thousands of well-wishers from behind the windows of a balcony at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo.
----------
Japan's NTT Docomo reports system glitch after cyberattack
TOKYO - NTT Docomo Inc. said Thursday it suffered a cyberattack that caused a website failure and some service disruptions, making Japan's largest mobile carrier the latest victim in a series of similar incidents at major firms in the country.
The mobile operator said a system glitch started around 5:27 a.m., making it difficult to connect to services, including the "goo" portal site, and that it was caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, in which networks are overwhelmed by data from multiple sources over a short period.
----------
Tennis: Nishikori moves into Hong Kong Open quarterfinals
TOKYO - Japan's Kei Nishikori advanced to the quarterfinals of the Hong Kong Tennis Open by rallying to beat third-seeded Russian Karen Khachanov on Wednesday.
Nishikori won 4-6, 6-3, 7-5 to secure his return to the top 100 in the world rankings. The former No. 4 will next play Britain's Cameron Norrie.
----------
Record number of Japan teachers on mental illness leave in FY 2023
TOKYO - The number of teachers who took leave due to mental illness at public schools in Japan climbed to 7,119 in fiscal 2023, a record high for the third straight year, a government survey showed, with increased workloads cited as the biggest possible factor.
The figure for the year to March 2024 was up 580 from a year earlier, accounting for 0.77 percent of all teachers at elementary, junior high and high schools as well as special needs schools, or 1 in 130 individuals, according to the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.
Video: Delivery of New Year's greeting cards begin
© Kyodo News.
To have the latest news and stories delivered to your inbox, subscribe here. Simply enter your email address below and an email will be sent through which to complete your subscription.
* Something went wrong
Please check your inbox for a confirmation email.
If you wish to change your message, press 'Cancel' to go back and edit.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing due to the mention of a cyberattack on Japan's largest mobile carrier, NTT Docomo Inc., which caused a system glitch and service disruptions. The incident is described as a distributed denial-of-service attack, which is a type of cyberattack. The article provides some depth in discussing the incident, but other themes, such as the New Year's celebrations and the emperor's address, also play a role. Overall, computing is a significant topic in the article, but not the exclusive focus."}]