Healey: UK to lead operation on monitoring Russian shadow fleet
Get our award-winning daily news email featuring exclusive stories, opinion and expert analysis
The reaction system, named Nordic Warden, comes after a power cable, which transmits energy from Finland to Estonia across the Baltic Sea, was reportedly damaged on Christmas Day.
The JEF has activated an advanced UK-led reaction system to track potential threats to undersea infrastructure and to monitor the movements of the Russian shadow fleet
Defence Secretary John Healey
On Monday, Mr Healey said: “Russian aggression is not simply confined to Ukraine, and we all saw what happened on Christmas Day. We are deeply concerned about the damage and sabotage to undersea cables.
“And I can confirm to the House that for the first time, the Joint Expeditionary Force, the JEF, has activated an advanced UK-led reaction system to track potential threats to undersea infrastructure and to monitor the movements of the Russian shadow fleet.
“This will be run out of the standing joint force headquarters at Northwood.”
Labour MP for Huddersfield, Harpreet Uppal, had asked: “Following the reported damage to a major undersea cable in the Baltic over Christmas, which Finnish authorities suggest may be indeed linked to a shadow fleet vessel, what further actions is the UK taking alongside European allies to undermine the Russian shadow fleet?”
Artificial intelligence will be used to assess data from a range of sources, including the Automatic Identification System (AIS) ships use to broadcast their position.
There are 22 areas of interest, including parts of the English Channel, North Sea, Kattegat and Baltic Sea, being monitored.
“I am pleased we are launching this cutting-edge technology so soon after the JEF Summit to enhance European security and deliver on our Plan for Change.”
I think (the shadow defence secretary) should take my words to this House, to him, which has been consistent, that the Strategic Defence Review will report in the spring, it will report directly to the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and to me, and I will update the House directly
Defence Secretary John Healey
Conservative MP Nick Timothy (West Suffolk) asked Mr Healey for his assessment on the threat to British interconnectors following the Christmas Day attack.
Mr Healey said the Finnish investigation into what caused the cable damage is ongoing, telling the Commons: “Many analysts conclude that it is likely that the Eagle S (vessel) was the cause.
“It reinforces the case for operation Nordic Warden that I have confirmed to the House earlier in the session.”
He added: “It will cover a number of areas of interest, including areas where we’ve got British undersea cables.”
Elsewhere during defence questions, shadow defence secretary James Cartlidge pressed the Government on its timeline for publishing the Strategic Defence Review (SDR).
He argued that the Government had “pushed back” the review, adding: “At the previous defence orals on November 18 last year, asked specifically on SDR timing, the Secretary of State said, I quote, the reviewers will report in the spring.
“But in written answer to me on December 17, just before the House rose, he said the reviewers will make their final report to the Prime Minister, Chancellor and Defence Secretary in the first half of 2025, and the Secretary of State for Defence will subsequently report the SDR to Parliament.
“Now, if the first part is in the first six months of the year, and the second is subsequent to that, even I can suggest that means it is in the second half of the year. That’s not the spring, is it?”
Mr Healey replied: “We’re dancing on the head of a pin here. The spring is in the first half of the year.
“I think (Mr Cartlidge) should take my words to this House, to him, which has been consistent, that the Strategic Defence Review will report in the spring, it will report directly to the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and to me, and I will update the House directly.”
MORE ABOUT
1
Football
Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal get Sesko boost, Nypan twist; Garnacho to Chelsea latest; shock Man Utd swap deal
2
Football
Man City vs Chelsea LIVE: Premier League latest score and goal updates today
3
Football
Man City XI vs Chelsea: Starting lineup, confirmed team news, injury latest for Premier League today
4
Football
Chelsea XI vs Man City: Starting lineup, confirmed team news, injury latest for Premier League today
5
Lifestyle
Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds reportedly ordered to hand over texts and emails about Justin Baldoni



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses a UK-led reaction system named Nordic Warden, which utilizes artificial intelligence to track potential threats to undersea infrastructure and monitor the movements of the Russian shadow fleet. The AI is used to assess data from various sources, including the Automatic Identification System (AIS) used by ships. Although the article is primarily focused on defense and security, the use of AI is a significant aspect of the system, making it relevant to computing and AI."}]