Dozens Of Marine Mammals Found Dead After Russian Oil Tanker Spill
                  Cetaceans are a type of aquatic mammal that includes whales, dolphins and porpoises.
                  It said most of those killed were "Azov" dolphins -- a type of harbour porpoise that look similar to dolphins but are more closely related to belugas and narwhals.
                  "More than 68 kilometres (42 miles) of coastline have been cleaned," it said.
                  The news agency said the second slick was two kilometres long.
Mohammed bin Sultan bin Khalifa crowns winners of Areela 60-ft Dhow Sailing Race
Chaudhry Salik Hussain has a special vision for youth. Khawaja Ramiz Hassan
First edition of UAE National MMA Championship gets underway in Abu Dhabi
M42 leading AI revolution in healthcare
200 Palestinian prisoners released in exchange for 4 Israeli female soldiers
Meta to spend up to $65 billion this year to power AI goals
Emirates Arabian Horses Cup-Endurance kicks off Sunday
'Pearl of the East Coast' festival draws remarkable turnout of visitors
SCCF launches awards for best, oldest vehicles
ACRES 2025 showcases flagship real estate projects across UAE
Massive fire at oil field in southern Iraq brought under control
PSL teams find new buys ahead of fast approaching 10th edition
Six peacekeepers killed as fighting rages in DRC
Trump victory rally in Vegas caps whirlwind week
Fired IT worker partly shuts down British Museum
Football: Italian Serie A results
Football: Spanish La Liga results
Football: Italian Serie A table
Cricket: India v England, 2nd T20 score
RugbyU: French Top 14 results
Brignone wins Garmisch downhill, Vonn out of luck
British Museum says partly closed after fired contractor 'shut down' IT systems
70 freed and 'deported' Palestinian prisoners reach Egypt: state-linked media
Brignone wins Garmisch downhill, Vonn out of luck
UrduPoint Network is the largest independent digital media house from Pakistan, catering the needs of its users since year 1997. We provide breaking news, Pakistani news, International news, Business news, Sports news, Urdu news and Live Urdu News
© 1997-2025 UrduPoint Network. All rights of the publication are reserved by UrduPoint.com. Reproduction without proper consent is not allowed.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily related to computing, specifically Artificial Intelligence (AI), as it mentions 'M42 leading AI revolution in healthcare' and 'Meta to spend up to $65 billion this year to power AI goals'. These statements indicate a significant focus on AI, with some depth in discussion, as it highlights the financial investment and potential impact on the healthcare sector. However, other non-technological topics are also present, such as sports and politics, which slightly reduces the centrality of AI in the article."}]