
Advanced technology helped create safe environment for women in 93 smart cities: Study


                    Cities also installed real-time monitoring systems through Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCCs), integration of which with police operations has enhanced evidence-based policing nationwide, the report said File
                                          | Photo Credit: M. Srinath
                                      
A safe urban environment for women has been created across 93 smart cities in the country with the installation of over 59,802 CCTV cameras and emergency call boxes, according to a study by the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore.
Cities also installed real-time monitoring systems through Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCCs), integration of which with police operations has enhanced evidence-based policing nationwide, the report said. ICCC the operational hub for smart city, handling day-to-day exceptions and disasters.  
The national level study has focused on smart cities of Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Nagpur (Maharashtra), and Tumakuru (Karnataka) for detailed primary impact assessment.
While Chennai and Tumakuru leveraged advanced monitoring systems, integrating safety cameras with ICCCs to assist law enforcement in gathering critical evidence for resolving crimes efficiently, Nagpur reported a 14% decline in overall crime rates post-implementation of surveillance measures.
The implementation of smart surveillance systems has reduced instances of harassment, assault and other crimes in areas with robust safety measures. Women in these three cities reported increased confidence in assessing public spaces, it said.
The study was carried out by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development under SAAR - Sameeksha series of Smart Cities Mission (SCM) launched in November 2023. A total of 50 national level impact assessment studies were carried out on Indian smart cities on various themes by twenty-nine (29) premier institutions of India, which includes - six IIMs, eight IITs, three SPAs, and 12 specialised research institutes. The smart cities Mission offered it data and facilitated on-ground site visits to these institutions, to document the learnings which could be bedrock for future urban development policies
The SCM was launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in June, 2015. The objective of this Mission is to promote cities that provide core infrastructure and give a decent quality of life to its citizens, a clean and sustainable environment and application of ‘smart’ solutions.

					Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
				
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically smart city technologies, with a focus on surveillance systems, CCTV cameras, and real-time monitoring systems. The study highlights the impact of these technologies on creating a safe environment for women in 93 smart cities. While the article does not delve deeply into technical aspects, it explores the social and economic implications of these technologies, making it a relevant and detailed discussion of computing concepts."}]