
With PM Modi expected to visit Paris in February, deals to buy Rafale fighter jets, Scorpene subs for Navy reach final stage


                    The deals, together worth over $10 billion, will include the purchase of 26 Rafale-M fighter jets. File.
                                          | Photo Credit: K. Murali Kumar
                                      
Two large defence deals in the pipeline between India and France are being finalised, amid expectations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Paris in February for the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit to be hosted by French President Emmanuel Macron. 
“The expectation is that PM Modi will visit Paris to attend the AI Summit and will also have a bilateral component. So both sides are working to tie up the two deals which are in the final stages of conclusion,” an informed source said. This was also independently confirmed by other sources. 
The French President’s office has already announced that Mr. Modi has been invited for the Artificial Intelligence Summit scheduled to be held on February 10 and 11. France said the gathering will focus on concrete actions to ensure that the global AI sector can drive beneficial social, economic and environmental outcomes in the public interest. 
On the Rafale-M deal, the Navy chief had said it was “one level short of taking it to the CCS (Cabinet Committee on Security)” for clearance, which will be followed by the signing of the contract. As it is a government-to-government deal, it is expected to be implemented quickly.
The deal for three Scorpene submarines is a repeat order to the Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited, which is building them in partnership with the Naval Group of France. Of the six submarines from the earlier contract, five have been inducted. The last one, Vagsheer, is set to be commissioned on January 15 at Mumbai, in the presence of Mr. Modi, along with two other frontline platforms.
On July 13, 2023, as Mr. Modi was enroute to Paris, the Defence Acquisition Council chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh accorded the Acceptance of Necessity for the procurement of 26 Rafale-M fighters and three additional Scorpene-class diesel-electric submarines. 
The Rafale purchase includes 22 single seater Rafale-M jets and four twin-seater Rafale trainers, which are not carrier compatible. The 26 jets are meant to fill a critical gap until the indigenous twin engine deck-based fighter, still under development, is ready to be inducted into service. The Navy currently operates two aircraft carriers: INS Vikramaditya procured from Russia, and the indigenously built INS Vikrant which was commissioned in September 2022.
Last month, the Defence Ministry signed two contracts worth ₹2,867 crore related to the existing Scorpene-class submarines. One is for the construction and onboard integration of an air independent propulsion module developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, while the second is for the integration of an electronic heavyweight torpedo also being developed by the DRDO.

					Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
				
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily focused on two defence deals between India and France, but it also mentions the upcoming Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend. The summit's focus on concrete actions for beneficial AI outcomes in the public interest is highlighted. While AI is not the main topic of the article, it plays a significant role, and the discussion lacks depth. The focus is shared with non-technological topics, such as the defence deals."}]