Mumbai: Unidentified Individual Sets IIT Bombay Computer Lab Ablaze; 6 Computers, 2 ACs, Projector Destroyed In Deliberate Act
About The Incident
According to the police, the suspect poured a kerosene-like substance into the lab and set it ablaze. The Powai police registered a case on January 3 against an unidentified individual under Section 326(f) (mischief involving injury, fire, or explosive substances) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita. 
According to the FIR, Pankaj, a Ph.D. student, noticed smoke coming from the computer lab at around 8.45 p.m. on December 31. He immediately informed Assistant Professor Chandrashekhar Tyagrajan, 33, via mobile phone. Tyagrajan rushed to the scene, where students and other individuals had already opened the lab and found it filled with thick smoke. 
Security guard Rajendra Yadav promptly notified the fire brigade, which arrived quickly and controlled the situation. Once the smoke cleared, Professor Tyagrajan and Head of Department A.H. Pradip inspected the damage. They discovered that six computers, two air conditioners, four chairs, a computer projector, and a screen were destroyed. 
Incident Reported
Professor Tyagrajan reported the incident to the Powai police, who conducted a site inspection (punchnama) and confirmed that a flammable substance had been used to start the fire. Based on Tyagrajan’s complaint, the police registered the case. 
Statement Of Senior Police Inspector, Jitendra Sonavane
Jitendra Sonavane, Senior Police Inspector, Powai police station, stated, “We registered the case immediately after IIT Bombay filed a complaint with us. This appears to be a deliberate act of mischief. We are examining CCTV footage and actively investigating the matter.”



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about an incident involving a computer lab at IIT Bombay, where an unidentified individual set fire to the lab, destroying six computers, two air conditioners, and other equipment. While the main focus is on the incident and the investigation, the central theme of the article involves the destruction of computing equipment, making it an article related to computing with a moderate level of depth."}]