Could Russia Become the World’s Crypto Capital?
With its abundant energy resources, supportive policies, and expanding crypto infrastructure, Russia is steadily advancing its position as a global leader in cryptocurrency.
As the global cryptocurrency landscape evolves, Russia is positioning itself as a serious contender for the title of the world’s crypto capital. With strategic policies, abundant resources, and ambitious plans for growth, Russia is making strides that could potentially place it at the forefront of the crypto revolution.
Russia has taken decisive steps to establish itself as a leader in cryptocurrency mining and regulation. The country has recognized mining as a legal and regulated industry, introducing taxation and oversight frameworks to legitimize and boost the sector. At the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) in September 2024, President Vladimir Putin reaffirmed Russia’s leadership in crypto mining. Statistics from the Industrial Mining Association of Russia reveal that industrial mining grew by 50% year-on-year in 2023, yielding 54,000 Bitcoins. Russia now ranks second globally, trailing only the United States in mining output.
Current estimates place Russia’s mining energy consumption at 2.5 to 2.7 gigawatts, with industrial-scale mining accounting for 1.8 GW. By comparison, U.S. miners consume approximately 7 GW. However, the gap may close quickly. BitRiver, Russia’s largest mining data center operator, predicts that the country’s mining power demand could reach 10 GW within five years, potentially surpassing the U.S. in as little as two to three years. Growth in mining is unlikely to strain Russia’s national energy system, with up to 20% of the required power coming from energy complexes associated with large data centers, according to Oleg Ogienko, Deputy CEO of BitRiver.
Russia’s advantages in cryptocurrency mining are evident. As one of the world’s largest electricity producers, Russia offers relatively low tariffs. Mining costs in Russia are estimated to be two to three times lower than in the U.S. or Canada. Many Russian regions also possess surplus electricity that can be allocated to mining. Additionally, Russia’s cold climate reduces the need for cooling in data centers, cutting cooling costs by 30 to 50%. In 2024, the government exempted mining and cryptocurrency sales from value-added tax (VAT) and introduced clear taxation rules, further incentivizing growth.
The expansion of industrial mining and the creation of multi-purpose data processing centers (DPCs) are expected to contribute significantly to Russia’s economy. The construction of DPCs currently generates around 250 billion rubles ($2.3 billion) annually, according to Evgeny Virtser, CEO of Free Technologies Engineering. These projects not only provide revenue but also create jobs and attract investments in infrastructure. Moreover, cryptocurrency mining data centers are increasingly supporting artificial intelligence (AI) development, particularly in training large language models. These centers rely on graphics processing units (GPUs), which are ideal for both crypto mining and AI applications.
The Russian Central Bank has launched an experimental platform for cryptocurrency transactions based on the National Payment System, aiming to facilitate uninterrupted payments for goods and services. In December, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov emphasized the importance of digital financial assets and cryptocurrencies for Russia’s foreign trade. The Ministry of Finance has even proposed exporting mined cryptocurrencies, treating them as commodities akin to natural gas.
With its abundant energy resources, supportive policies, and expanding crypto infrastructure, Russia is steadily advancing its position as a global leader in cryptocurrency. Whether it can ultimately surpass the United States remains to be seen, but its efforts are reshaping the future of digital finance.
Sputnik News is a Russian news agency that reports on a diverse array of topics, including world news, politics, economics, and culture. It publishes content in multiple languages, including English, and is recognized for presenting a Russian perspective on global affairs. Sri Lanka Guardian serves as an official content syndication partner of Sputnik News.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically cryptocurrency mining and artificial intelligence (AI), as it discusses Russia's position as a global leader in cryptocurrency, its supportive policies, and the expansion of its crypto infrastructure. The article also mentions the role of graphics processing units (GPUs) in both crypto mining and AI applications, and the potential for cryptocurrency mining data centers to support AI development, particularly in training large language models. However, the article's focus is on cryptocurrency and its economic implications, with AI being a secondary aspect."}]