Dogecoin (DOGE) Prepares for Fresh Bull Wave to New ATH amid Renewed Interest from Whale Investors
The Dogecoin’s Futures Open Interest (OI) increased from $554 million in October 2024, to $2 billion on January 2, 2025, amid rising demand from whale investors.
However, Dogecoin price has been trapped in a midterm correction mode since hitting a resistance level of around 48 cents in December. In the daily time frame, DOGE price has consistently closed below the 50 Moving Average (MA).
After a more than 40% drop in the last four weeks, DOGE price has retested a crucial support level of around 26 cents, which coincides with the 0.618 daily Fibonacci level. As a result, it is safe to assume that DOGE price is preparing for the next major bull run toward a new all-time high in the near term.
The launch of X Money, which will potentially integrate with Dogecoin, will give the meme coin more real-world utility, which is extremely bullish in the long haul. Furthermore, the meme coin industry, which currently has a market valuation of about $115 billion and a 24-hour average trading volume of around $14 billion, is expected to lead in the ongoing macro bull run.
Let’s talk web3, crypto, Metaverse, NFTs, CeDeFi, meme coins, and Stocks, and focus on multi-chain as the future of blockchain technology.

Let us all WIN!
Steve Muchoki on LinkedIn
Julia Sakovich on X
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 23rd, 2025
Copyright © 2025 MDD Group FZE LLC All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of MDD Group FZE LLC is prohibited.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about cryptocurrency, specifically Dogecoin, but it does mention blockchain technology, which is a key concept in computing. The discussion is relatively in-depth, covering topics like futures open interest, market valuations, and real-world utility. The article also touches on related technologies like web3, Metaverse, and NFTs, indicating a strong connection to computing. However, the focus remains on the cryptocurrency market, making it an 8 out of 10 in terms of computing relevance."}]