Venezuela’s Oil Exports Surge in 2024
Venezuela benefits from rising oil production, up 17% year-over-year, and strengthened international partnerships.
Venezuela’s oil exports achieved a remarkable 10.5% increase in 2024, reaching the highest levels since 2019, despite the ongoing challenges posed by U.S. sanctions and the country’s fragile domestic economy. The surge in export volumes to an average of 772,000 barrels per day (bpd) reflects the adept maneuvering of state-owned PDVSA and its joint venture partners.
A key driver behind this success is the more lenient stance taken by the U.S. under President Joe Biden. The administration granted individual licenses to companies like Chevron, allowing them to resume shipping Venezuelan crude to the United States. This arrangement helped Chevron recover substantial debts owed by Venezuela through oil exports. As a result, Venezuela’s shipments to the U.S. soared by 64%, reaching 222,000 bpd, making the U.S. the country’s second-largest crude oil export destination.
China continues to be Venezuela’s largest recipient of crude, though shipments to the Asian giant fell by 18% compared to 2023. Meanwhile, India has emerged as an increasingly important player in Venezuela’s oil export strategy. The country ramped up its imports from Venezuela, reaching 63,115 bpd in 2024—up sharply from just 10,300 bpd the previous year. A recent deal could further boost India’s share of Venezuela’s oil exports in 2025, particularly following Reliance’s halt on crude purchases from Venezuela in March.
However, Venezuela’s export gains may be short-lived. The country is grappling with persistent refinery outages, and in December 2024, its export volumes dipped to 756,000 bpd, down from November’s peak of 974,000 bpd. This raises questions about whether the decline is temporary or part of a longer-term trend.
Looking ahead, Venezuela’s oil strategy faces significant uncertainties. U.S. policies may change with new leadership, potentially tightening sanctions and restricting exports. With President Nicolás Maduro preparing for a contentious third term, Venezuela’s oil sector remains a high-stakes balancing act between domestic survival and international diplomacy.
For now, Venezuela benefits from rising oil production, up 17% year-over-year, and strengthened international partnerships. But whether this momentum can be sustained amid operational and political pressures is still unclear.
This report was originally published by Oilprice.com, with contributions from Julianne Geiger.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about Venezuela's oil exports, but it mentions OpenAI's launch of Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. This is a significant role for AI in the article, but the discussion is relatively surface-level and lacks depth, as the focus remains on the oil export topic. The mention of AI is a minor theme, but it's not central to the discussion, and the technological aspects are not explored in detail."}]