BBVA to Offer Crypto Services in Europe through Garanti BBVA Kripto Platform
BBVA is set to offer crypto services through Garanti BBVA Kripto amid MiCA compliance issues.
This comes right after the European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) rule took effect on December 30, 2024. According to Abel Peña, Bit2Me’s Chief Sales Officer, the alliance between BBVA and the exchange signals more innovation ahead.
“I believe in 2025 we are going to see so many banks across Europe offering crypto spot trading to their users,” Peña said. “We are in very close contact with more than 50 financial institutions, with banks all across Europe and internationally, and they will start launching their services in the first quarter of 2025.”
It’s been one year since Garanti BBVA Kripto began advertising crypto trading services on its website. However, the product only became available as a pilot and not even to the general public.
Generally, BBVA’s stance towards the crypto industry is due to Turkey’s favorable regulatory environment. The official debut of MiCA has made it better for many financial institutions like BBVA to delve into the crypto sector.
BBVA can obtain approval from domestic regulators and provide European customers access to cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH).
Peña confirmed that once the firm gets the requested approvals, it will commence its crypto service advertising immediately. Although the Bit2Me executive failed to disclose the names of its partner institutions, Peña stated:
“This is from the knowledge that many of them are already integrated with us.”
Judging by the US banking system’s generally known stance on cryptocurrencies, the move of BBVA comes off as a surprise.
Summers does not support the strategy, citing that such a move would primarily serve the interests of Trump’s supporters who advocate for cryptocurrency rather than offering substantial economic benefits.
Benjamin Godfrey is a blockchain enthusiast and journalist who relishes writing about the real life applications of blockchain technology and innovations to drive general acceptance and worldwide integration of the emerging technology. His desire to educate people about cryptocurrencies inspires his contributions to renowned blockchain  media and sites.
Godfrey Benjamin on X
Julia Sakovich on X
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 24th, 2025
January 23rd, 2025
Copyright © 2025 MDD Group FZE LLC All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of MDD Group FZE LLC is prohibited.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "This article is primarily about the banking sector's adoption of cryptocurrencies, specifically BBVA's plans to offer crypto services in Europe through Garanti BBVA Kripto. The discussion centers around the regulatory environment, technological capabilities, and potential economic benefits of cryptocurrency adoption. While not exclusively focused on AI or computing, the article does explore the intersection of technology and finance, making it a significant topic in the computing realm."}]