Italian Newspaper Sparks Outrage by Naming Mussolini ‘Man of the Year’
The move by Libero, however, was met with widespread condemnation.
“It’s been another year of surreal arguments from the left about the return of fascism and about the ghost of Benito Mussolini at Palazzo Chigi,” Sechi wrote, referencing Meloni’s office as prime minister. He argued that left-wing critics of Meloni continually use Mussolini as a political cudgel, creating what he described as a “constant talking point.”
A second editorial by Alberto Busacca doubled down on this assertion, claiming that the left “cannot do without the Duce.”
Alan Friedman, an American journalist and author based in Italy, described the editorial decision as “grotesque and disgusting,” echoing the sentiment of many commentators who argued the headline trivialized Mussolini’s atrocities.
The controversy has highlighted the deep divisions that persist in Italy over its fascist history and the broader ideological battle between left- and right-wing factions. Nearly eight decades after the fall of Mussolini and 35 years after the Cold War, debates over fascism and communism remain highly polarizing.
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni, whose Brothers of Italy party traces its roots to the postwar fascist Italian Social Movement (MSI), has worked hard to distance herself from Mussolini’s legacy. Describing herself as a modern conservative, Meloni has consistently rejected accusations of fascist sympathies.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing due to a specific section discussing OpenAI's AI agent, Operator, which is capable of performing online tasks within a web. Although the topic of AI is not central to the entire article, it is a significant part of the content, and the discussion is relatively detailed. Other non-technological themes, such as politics and international news, also play a role, but computing is the dominant topic in this specific section."}]