Inside the Trailer of Terror: New Orleans Killer’s Radicalization and Deadly Attack
Investigators uncover the tragic descent of New Orleans killer Shamsud-Din Jabbar, from a disciplined soldier to a radicalized terrorist, in a trailer filled with chilling evidence.
Inside the shabby trailer where Shamsud-Din Jabbar plotted his deadly attack on New Orleans, an open Quran sat on a reading stand. The final lines on the page, describing the promise of paradise for those who die in the name of Allah, may have been the last words he read before setting out on his murderous mission. Jabbar, 42, rammed his truck into a crowd of revelers on New Year’s Day, killing 14 before he was shot by police. The truck bore an ISIS flag, and inside, investigators found pipe bombs, which Jabbar had allegedly built in the trailer, 300 miles away in a Houston suburb.
The FBI’s investigation revealed a stark picture of Jabbar’s life leading up to the attack. The trailer was in disarray, with furniture moved and cabinets left open, yet much of it seemed untouched as though Jabbar had left in haste. Clothes hung in closets, children’s toys lay in a bedroom, and a plastic dartboard was still hanging in the living room. Neighbors described him as a quiet, private individual, with no indication of his radicalization. “We’re still in shock. He was a nice boy, a good neighbor,” said one neighbor, reflecting the confusion that followed the attack.
Further investigation into the home revealed clues about Jabbar’s descent from a promising U.S. Army serviceman to a man consumed by radical Islamic ideology. Items from his past life, including a “Veterans in the USA” label and a desk used during his days as a real estate agent, marked a time when he was seemingly on a different path. However, in the final months of his life, Jabbar became increasingly isolated, with a collection of Islamic texts, including multiple copies of the Quran, filling the shelves of his home.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to AI, with a specific focus on the launch of OpenAI's Operator, an AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. Although the article is not entirely about AI, it provides some depth in discussing the intersection of AI and science, citing the example of AlphaFold, a protein-folding program. The AI-related content is significant, making up a substantial part of the article."}]