《TAIPEI TIMES》Older people’s university program to begin August
為達最佳瀏覽效果，建議使用 Chrome、Firefox 或 Microsoft Edge 的瀏覽器。
爆
Ministry of Education officials and representatives of universities participating in the ministry’s new university program pose for a photograph at a news conference in Taipei yesterday.
Photo: Rachel Lin, Taipei Times
‘ADD BRILLIANCE’:The program would help those aged 55 or older enhance their skills to re-enter the job market and continue contributing to society
By Rachel Lin and Sam Garcia / Staff reporter, with staff writer
請繼續往下閱讀...
A new university program tailored to people aged 55 years and older is expected to begin in August, the Ministry of Education announced yesterday.
More than half of Taiwanese aged 55 or older do not have college degrees, ministry data showed.
The new program has 38 participating universities and would offer courses online and in-person, the ministry said.
University representatives including National Chi Nan University president Wuu Dong-sing （武東星）, National Chung Cheng University vice president Chan Sheng-ju （詹盛如） and Asia University vice president Tsay Shiow-fon （蔡秀芬） attended the program’s news conference yesterday.
In the program’s pilot year, universities would offer courses covering artificial intelligence （AI） applications, financial technology, health and nutrition management, and elderly care, Deputy Minister of Education Lin Teng-chiao （林騰蛟） said.
The program would help those aged 55 or older enhance their skills to re-enter the job market, continue contributing to society and add more brilliance to their lives, Lin said.
Participating universities would plan programs tailored to the needs of the middle-aged generation, Department of Lifelong Education director Liang Hsueh-cheng （梁學政） said.
Students who complete the courses in their chosen specialization would receive a certificate issued by the ministry, Liang said.
Students who complete all credits required for graduation would receive an undergraduate degree from the university, he said.
Enrollment for the program is targeted at Taiwanese aged 55 years or older who have graduated from high school.
The study period would be limited to 10 years and each class would typically contain 20 students, with a minimum enrollment of 15 students.
 2025年1月21日‧星期二‧甲辰年臘月廿二日
熱門推播



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically artificial intelligence (AI), as it mentions AI applications as one of the course topics in the new university program for people aged 55 or older. The discussion is detailed, and AI is a significant aspect of the program, aiming to enhance the skills of the participants to re-enter the job market and contribute to society. However, the article also explores non-technical themes, such as the program's goals and the needs of the middle-aged generation, which reduces its centrality to computing. Overall, the article provides a good balance of technical and non-technical aspects, making it a score of 8."}]