Syrian Delegation Visits Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia has extended significant humanitarian support to Syria.
In a significant diplomatic milestone, a senior Syrian delegation has arrived in Saudi Arabia, marking the first official foreign visit since Bashar al-Assad was ousted from power last month. The visit reflects a dramatic shift in regional dynamics, as Gulf states rapidly engage with Syria’s new administration, dominated by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS).
The delegation, led by Syrian Foreign Minister Asaad al-Shaibani and including Defence Minister Murhaf Abu Qasra and Intelligence Chief Anas Khattab, was welcomed at Riyadh airport by Saudi Arabia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Waleed Elkhereiji. According to the Financial Times, this visit is seen as a pivotal step toward fostering renewed ties between the two nations.
“Through this first visit in the history of free Syria, we aspire to open a new and bright page in Syrian-Saudi relations, befitting the long shared history between the two countries,” Shaibani said in a statement on X (formerly Twitter).
The visit comes amidst heightened concerns over regional instability following recent conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon. Gulf countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, are keen to ensure peace while addressing issues such as the smuggling of Captagon and other illicit drugs originating from Syria.
Saudi Arabia has also extended significant humanitarian support to Syria. The kingdom dispatched three planeloads of aid, including food, shelter, and medical supplies, signaling its commitment to supporting Syria’s recovery.
Kuwait’s Foreign Minister Abdullah al-Yahya, along with Jasem al-Budaiwi, Secretary-General of the Gulf Cooperation Council, recently met Syria’s de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa. Yahya emphasized the urgency of reconsidering international sanctions on Syria and enhancing aid efforts. “This visit shows our commitment to opening a new page of constructive regional cooperation,” he said during a press conference in Damascus.
Sharaa, who previously used the nom de guerre Abu Mohammad al-Jolani, has sought to position Syria as a key partner for Gulf states. In an interview with Al Arabiya, he highlighted Saudi Arabia’s potential role in rebuilding Syria’s economy and outlined an ambitious timeline for political transition. Sharaa indicated that drafting a new constitution could take up to three years, with elections potentially occurring within four years.
Despite HTS’s designation as a terrorist organization by the US, UN, and other international bodies, there are growing signs of Western engagement with Syria’s new rulers. This cautious approach reflects a pragmatic shift, driven by a desire to stabilize the region and mitigate the humanitarian crisis in Syria.
The evolving relationship between Gulf states and Syria signals a departure from previous policies that isolated Damascus under Assad’s rule. Qatar, which had long opposed efforts to rehabilitate Assad’s regime, has also joined the dialogue, sending a high-level delegation to Syria last week.
As Syria embarks on this new chapter, the stakes remain high. Regional powers are navigating the complexities of engaging with HTS-led Syria, while seeking to balance security concerns and economic opportunities.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about the evolving relationship between Gulf states and Syria, but it touches on the topic of artificial intelligence (AI) with the mention of OpenAI's AI agent called Operator, which can perform online tasks within a web browser. This is a significant role, but the discussion lacks depth, and the focus is shared with non-technological topics such as politics and international relations."}]