Justin Baldoni Sues The NYT Alleging Sexual Harassment
The New York Times has maintained its position, asserting that its reporting was factual and substantiated by a wide array of evidence.
The controversy began when Lively, 37, filed a lawsuit in New York earlier this week, accusing Baldoni, 40, of sexually harassing her on set and orchestrating a campaign to ruin her reputation. The actress’s lawsuit alleges that Baldoni entered her trailer unannounced while she was breastfeeding, and that his actions were part of a larger, retaliatory scheme to silence her after she reported instances of harassment.
According to the lawsuit filed by Lively, she claims that Baldoni, along with the film’s production company, Wayfarer Studios, coordinated a “retaliatory campaign” against her after she raised concerns about the harassment. In December, Lively filed a civil rights complaint, alleging that the retaliatory actions, including a public smear campaign, had caused her significant emotional distress and loss of income.
The legal conflict extends beyond just Lively and Baldoni. Both Lively’s lawsuit and Baldoni’s counterclaim involve multiple defendants, including crisis communications expert Melissa Nathan, who is accused of playing a role in orchestrating the alleged smear campaign.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing because it mentions artificial intelligence (AI) in the context of OpenAI's launch of Operator, an AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. This is a significant role, and the discussion provides some depth, albeit not exclusively focusing on AI. The article's main theme revolves around news and current events, but the AI aspect is a notable part of the content."}]