DRC: North Kivu Hospital overwhelmed by increasing number of wounded
“We are going to focus on the important problems, starting with the economy. In this new treatment, perhaps we must also take bitter medicine,” said the president upon assuming his second term in office on June 1, 2023.
In this scenario, many are wondering what awaits Salvadorans in 2025, where, among other things, the policy of the new US president Donald Trump will have an impact. He will take office this month with promises to expel immigrants and tighten trade regulations.
However, there are signs that Salvadoran politicians find encouraging, such as the American’s announcement to support the bitcoin ecosystem, which for some is a speculative asset that will contribute little to global economic problems.
Today, when the cryptocurrency has surpassed the threshold of 100 thousand dollars in its value, the country has six thousand 002 coins in reserve that exceed 650 million in value, something that could be promising, according to its promoters.
Just after surpassing 100 thousand dollars for the first time at the beginning of December, the specialized media Bloomberg reported that Salvadoran bonds improved their appreciation in response to the benefits seen by the State with the digital currency.
It is a result, according to official propaganda, at a time when the country is moving towards greater indebtedness with an agreement for 1.5 billion dollars to be signed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
It should be noted that as part of the economic plan for the corresponding period of 2025-2029, Bukele anticipated that he will work on three fronts: food, technology and logistics.
His policy of creating agricultural markets with better prices could be maintained in 2025, although many wonder until when, at a time when the country is experiencing setbacks in food production and agriculture in general.
Regarding technology, the president announced this axis in July, when accompanying the inauguration of the first data center called Data Trust, which was executed with an initial investment of 30 million.
He also opened his doors to Google as part of the technological modernization ecosystem, an area that also saw the arrival of other artificial intelligence, crypto, cybersecurity, big data companies, among others.
Important in the economic challenge will be the completion of an agreement with the Turkish company YILPORT Holding for 1,615 million dollars, which will serve to increase the operational capacity of the port of Acajutla and reactivate the port of La Unión.
In this last case, some estimate that it may result, prospectively, in a relationship between El Salvador and the BRICS, starting with Vice President Ulloa’s trip to Russia last year to promote relations with that country.
The Puerto Cortés in Honduras is connected to the Puerto La Unión in El Salvador through the Dry Canal, an interoceanic route that will allow the connection between the Atlantic and the Pacific.
This agreement can open new commercial opportunities that will contribute to economic growth and the consolidation of El Salvador as a logistics reference in the region.
 It could also be a link for trade between the BRICS and Asian partners (China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand) with Latin America, a scenario to be built and in which Salvadorans can contribute.
These are just some of the aspects that can influence this Central American nation to reach certain levels of development and boost its economy.
ro/lb
Web Site developed by IT Division  Prensa Latina.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions technology as one of the three main fronts of the president's economic plan for 2025-2029, alongside food and logistics. It also highlights the inauguration of the first data center called Data Trust with an initial investment of 30 million dollars, and the arrival of various companies in the technological modernization ecosystem, including Google, artificial intelligence, crypto, cybersecurity, and big data companies. However, the focus of the article is on the economic implications of these technological advancements rather than a deep technical discussion."}]