Iran Escalates Military Drills Ahead of Trump’s Return to Power
This increased military activity comes at a time of heightened tension following the election of Donald Trump, whose administration has vowed to reinstate the "maximum pressure" campaign against Iran.
Brigadier General Ali Mohammad Naeini, spokesperson for the Revolutionary Guards, highlighted that the scope and sophistication of this year’s exercises have significantly expanded, with new weaponry and an increased number of participating brigades. The drills include operations near sensitive locations, such as the Natanz nuclear facility, and the largest maritime exercise will take place in the Strait of Hormuz, a vital chokepoint for global oil shipments. Iran has previously threatened to close the strait in retaliation for actions that could disrupt its oil exports.
This increased military activity comes at a time of heightened tension following the election of Donald Trump, whose administration has vowed to reinstate the “maximum pressure” campaign against Iran. The campaign, which includes the re-imposition of sanctions and opposition to Iran’s nuclear program, follows Trump’s decision to withdraw from the nuclear deal during his first term. Iran is also under significant pressure from regional developments, including Israel’s military actions against Iranian proxies and the broader fallout from the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel. Iran’s regional influence has been challenged, especially with the destabilization of Syria, a key ally, disrupting its military and financial support for groups like Hezbollah and Hamas.
The Sri Lanka Guardian is an online web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists, activists, academics and retired civil servants. We are independent and non-profit. Email: editor@slguardian.org
Your email address will not be published.
India’s Adani Group has firmly rejected reports suggesting the cancellation of its $440 million power purchase
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has filed a fundamental rights (FR) petition with the Supreme Court, seeking
by Our Economic Affairs Editor The inexorable march of time has always been mankind’s most immutable
Conservative commentator Candace Owens has sparked outrage after doubling down on a baseless conspiracy theory that
OpenAI has launched Operator, its first AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web
Most people learn to count and do basic arithmetic at a young age and don’t give
When artificial intelligence and science intersect, the results can be groundbreaking. Consider AlphaFold, the protein-folding program
A Chinese aerospace company has unveiled its prototype for a next-generation supersonic passenger aircraft capable of
by Our Correspondent in Doha The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon (Hezbollah) has issued a strongly worded
Oleh Druz, the chief psychiatrist of Ukraine’s armed forces, has been arrested on suspicion of corruption



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically AI, as it mentions OpenAI's Operator, an AI agent capable of performing online tasks within a web. This is a key topic, with some depth, but the article also explores non-technological themes such as international politics and military drills. However, the discussion of AI is detailed and technical, making computing a dominant topic in the article."}]