2024: How was it for Europe?
President von der Leyen promotes openness and stronger European competitiveness during keynote speech at the Davos World Economic Forum
Meet the 10 new co-ordinators supporting the Energy Transition Partnership for EU fisheries and aquaculture
‘Freedom of speech must not be abused to justify disinformation and hate speech’, says S&D Group President
Those wanting to earn money in Europe must comply with EU law
EU provides €175 million to support research, innovation and just transition of steel and coal sectors
How Russians Pavel Voloshin and Armen Zurabyan do business in Ukraine and Russia
EU launches three-year project to support strengthening crime scene forensics and prosecution capabilities in investigating CBRN incidents in the Middle East
China’s provincial-level regions to boost economy, consumption through debut economy in 2025
China continues expanding circle of friends in foreign trade
Traditional folk customs of Spring Festival: Enjoy sticky candy
Strategic Dialogue on the Future of the European Automotive Industry will be launched on 30 January
Sweco recognized as a Top Employer 2025 in Belgium
Zero-emission vehicles: How many newly registered in 2023?
Can Europe’s new instant payments rules turn regulation into opportunity?
European Industry and Transport Associations call for change on Railway Capacity Management
EU provides €175 million to support research, innovation and just transition of steel and coal sectors
Commission and member states confirm no gas supply concerns in the New Year
EU primary energy consumption decreased by 4% in 2023
Quarterly reports confirm further structural progress on renewables and security of supply on EU energy markets
EU gas storages 95% full, surpassing the 90% target in the Gas Storage Regulation
Kazakhstan’s leap in education investment: A model for global progress
Commission’s eTwinning platform celebrates 20 years of successful school collaboration
EU education funding in Pakistan raises concerns over religious content in schools
ErasmusDays 2024 celebrates the role of Erasmus+ with thousands of events across Europe
More pupils in the EU are learning multiple languages
Without a clear animal vaccination strategy, the next outbreak could be a disaster
Shaping the European Oceans Pact: Commission launches a call for evidence
Saving the Caspian Sea: A regional crisis with global stakes
Zero-emission vehicles: How many newly registered in 2023?
EU greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 7% in 2023
European Health Data Space: Council adopts new regulation improving cross-border access to EU health data
Launch of the first EU action to address nurse shortages shows positive impact of European Health Union 
New EU rules on Health Technology Assessment open up a new era for patient access to innovation
DIGITAL LEAP: Industry proposes phased rollout of ePI for patient safety and environmental sustainability
Production and consumption of chemicals dropped in 2023
Reviving an old favourite to help lift the January blues
Sparkling wine production and exports down 8% in 2023
Merry Christmas!
foodora unwrapped: the most unique orders and stats of the year
ICEHOTEL 35 is open – See the first images
Separating fact from fiction: The BRICS currency debate
How Nigerian news outlets spread disinformation on the Ukraine-Russia conflict
Goolammv ‘unmasking’ raises more questions than it answers
Nova Resistência in Brazil: Identifying Dangerous Narratives and Stemming Their Influence
Championing Muslim Humanity to Perceive the Russian Invasion In the Indonesia-Malaysia Young Muslim Community 
Without a clear animal vaccination strategy, the next outbreak could be a disaster
Dolphinariums to be banned across Belgium
Compassion in World Farming calls for improved animal welfare
After a year of protests, the EU looks set to have a healthier relationship with the farming sector
Silent Suffering: Photo exhibition highlights cruel realities of animals in Europe
Meet the 10 new co-ordinators supporting the Energy Transition Partnership for EU fisheries and aquaculture
Commission welcomes the integration of the revised Code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online into the Digital Services Act  
Commission addresses additional investigatory measures to X in the ongoing proceedings under the Digital Services Act 
European Aviation Environmental Report 2025 provides key recommendations for a more sustainable future in aviation
How eSIM, IoT, and connectivity security are powering industry 4.0
Rutte to MEPs: ‘We are safe now, we might not be safe in five years’
Steadfast Dart 2025 ready to start
A safer digital future: new cyber rules become law
Zelenskyy: Ukraine can join NATO or acquire nukes
European Cybersecurity Month 2024: #ThinkB4UClick
Published
on
By
It was a year of elections across the world, and a chance to reflect on the importance of democracy in turbulent times. In June, millions of people helped to shape Europe’s future by casting their votes in the European elections.  
In 2024, the EU faced many challenges and consistently took action to deliver for Europeans and beyond.
Advancing on climate goals
Extreme weather events across the world demonstrated the consequences of climate change and the need for swift action. The EU stayed on track to reach its climate targets, with results that will benefit people and the planet for years to come. 
In the first half of 2024, 50% of the EU’s electricity generation came from renewable sources. This trend moves us closer to our climate goals: a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. 
Consumers are now in a better position to contribute to the circular economy and clean transition through new rules which give people better information on a product’s durability, and combat greenwashing and early obsolescence. The nature restoration law will help ecosystems to recover, increase biodiversity and enhance food security. And thanks to new rules on industrial, livestock, and road vehicles emissions and revised rules on air quality, Europeans will benefit from cleaner air, water and soil. 
Farmers spoke, and we listened: we started a new dialogue, bringing together European farmers, the agri-food sector, and rural communities. We heard their perspectives, ambitions, concerns and solutions, so that we can find common ground and create a shared vision for the future of farming in the EU.  
In February, we presented actions to simplify and reduce their paperwork. And in December, we proposed new rules to strengthen farmers’ position in the supply chain and combat unfair trading practices. 
The EU stepped up on several occasions to respond to emergencies across Europe this year. We deployed our firefighting fleet to battle wildfires this summer in Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, Albania, and North Macedonia. We also mobilised support for Austria, Czechia, Germany, Italy, Slovakia, Spain, Poland, and Bosnia and Herzegovina when they were struck with devastating floods.  
These events confirm the importance of being prepared for when disaster hits. A day after deadly flash floods hit the Valencia region in Spain, Special Advisor Sauli Niinistö presented his landmark report on strengthening Europe’s preparedness, underlining the need for us to adopt a new approach to prepare for future emergencies. 
Preparedness also means being ready for disruptive technological change. In 2024, we saw first-hand how important this is, as artificial intelligence became part of our daily lives.  
This year, the EU took a leading role in regulating this groundbreaking technology by introducing the AI law, the world’s first dedicated AI regulation. Its application will guarantee the safety and rights of people and businesses while also providing the right conditions for innovation. 
We also used existing laws to create a safer online experience for citizens and protect the integrity of our elections. Under the Digital Services Act, we investigated several online platforms to ensure that enough is being done to remove misleading or illegal content, protect people’s data and address addictive design practices.  
As the geopolitical situation rapidly shifts and evolves, we must be prepared to respond to external threats. In 2024, we appointed for the first time a Commissioner for Defence. 
In January, we contributed to the creation of a new facility to boost investment in defence innovation. And in March, to help ensure our defence readiness, the Commission presented a new strategy and investment programme for the European defence industry.  
After more than 1000 days of war, Europe continues to stand firm with Ukraine and its people. In 2024, we provided unprecedented political, financial and humanitarian support to the country, and continued to impose sanctions against Russia and others complicit in the war. 
To support Ukraine’s recovery, reconstruction, and path towards EU accession, this year we launched a new financial instrument worth up to €50 billion, with Ukraine having already received €16.1 billion of this support in 2024.  
In June, the EU formally opened accession negotiations with Ukraine, in the next step on its path towards EU membership.  
The harrowing images emerging from the escalation in the Middle East this year underlined the urgent need for humanitarian action. The Commission stepped up to support people caught up in the conflict: we delivered substantial aid to Gaza and Lebanon and provided millions in financial assistance to help maintain basic living conditions and ensure the running of essential services. 
The outbreak of mpox in Central and Eastern Africa is a public health emergency requiring a global response. To help contain the virus and save people’s lives, the Commission led the coordination of the delivery of more than 120,000 vaccines to support the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). In addition to vaccines, the Commission provided humanitarian funding to help the DRC, Burundi and Uganda respond to the outbreak. 
International trade has contributed substantially to the prosperity we enjoy in the EU today. In 2024, we reached agreements that will lead us to stronger growth and enable us to strengthen our partnerships around the world. 
In May, our trade deal with New Zealand entered into force, creating big opportunities for EU businesses and farmers. And in July, we concluded negotiations with Singapore on a digital trade agreement, the first EU agreement of its kind. 
In December, we reached a landmark deal with the Mercosur countries of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. The EU-Mercosur agreement will boost our competitiveness, help secure and diversify our supply chains, and will enable EU businesses to grow and reduce costs. 
On 1 December 2024, a new Commission took office. President Ursula von der Leyen and her new team of Commissioners have already began working to address the challenges we face today and prepare Europe for the future. 
Over 2025 and beyond, the European Commission will focus on enhancing Europe’s prosperity and competitiveness, strengthening our defence and security, and continuing to protect our democracy and social model.  
Read more
Share this article:
As the UK keeps a long, long distance from the EU, Switzerland gets closer
NextGenerationEU reaches €300 billion in RRF payments with new disbursements to Czechia, Germany, Italy, Portugal, and Romania
UN HRC commends human rights situation in Kazakhstan
How Russians Pavel Voloshin and Armen Zurabyan do business in Ukraine and Russia
EU launches three-year project to support strengthening crime scene forensics and prosecution capabilities in investigating CBRN incidents in the Middle East
Ranking the hottest AI jobs of 2025 and what they pay
EU and Malaysia relaunch free trade agreement negotiations 
‘A basic right to prepare for and survive war’
Sweco recognized as a Top Employer 2025 in Belgium
Copyright © 2025 EU Reporter. All rights reserved.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is primarily about the European Commission's activities and policies in 2024, with a significant focus on digital technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI), cybersecurity, and e-commerce. The AI law is specifically mentioned as a key regulation introduced by the EU, aiming to guarantee safety and rights while promoting innovation. Additionally, the Digital Services Act is discussed, with investigations into online platforms to remove misleading content and protect citizens' data. The article also mentions eSIM, IoT, and connectivity security as powering industry 4.0. While other topics, such as climate change, energy, and international trade, are also covered, the technological aspects are a dominant theme."}]