Nationwide malfunction causes entry ban: German airports face major delays
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.

                    Dusseldorf airport the most affected by police systems used to check passenger passports in Germany malfunctioned, causing delays. Credit: Abriael, Twitter                    
A multitude of airports across Germany have come under serious disruption due to an apparent ‘nationwide IT malfunction’, as reported by various German news outlets on Friday, January 3, leading to major delays.
The specific issue pertains to federal computer systems, whereby police can officiate the safe travel of passengers into the country, checking their passports using a digitised system. 
Bild reports that police officers had to then manually process the tasks that typically were handled electronically. This hassle added hours onto processing times and saw serious queues in airports.
Of those affected, Dussledorf has had the most trouble, with passengers waiting over two hours at security checkpoints, with the airport adding in an official statement that entry from outside the Schengen area is ‘currently impossible’, adding to the frustration and chaos facing travellers in the area. 
Heiko Teggatz, the chairman of the Federal Police Union, has openly spoken out about his anger at the ‘inadequate’ IT modernisation funding for officers, proposing there is a deficit of around 150 million euros. He feels this shortage does not allow federal officers to do their job correctly, and his frustrations appear to bear fruit. 
This incident comes just six months after the global IT outage on July 19, 2024 caused havoc across major airports throughout Europe and the rest of the world, with over 5000 reported cancellations to flights.
Keep up to date with news from Germany here.
Share this story
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!

                            .                        
Known as the PEOPLE’S PAPER, Euro Weekly News is the leading English language newspaper in Spain. And it’s FREE!
Covering the Almeria, Axarquia, Costa Blanca North, Costa Blanca South, Costa del Sol , Costa Calida, Mallorca and beyond, EWN supports and inspires the individuals, neighbourhoods, and communities we serve, by delivering news with a social conscience. Whether it’s local news in Spain, UK news or international stories, we are proud to be the voice for the expat communities who now call Spain home.
With around half a million print readers a week and over 1.5 million web views per month, EWN has the biggest readership of any English language newspaper in Spain. The paper prints over 150 news stories a week with many hundreds more on the web – no one else even comes close.
Our publication has won numerous awards over the last 25 years including Best Free Newspaper of the Year (Premios AEEPP), Company of the Year (Costa del Sol Business Awards) and Collaboration with Foreigners honours (Mijas Town Hall). All of this comes at ZERO cost to our readers. All our print and online content always has been and always will be FREE OF CHARGE.
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!
Download our media pack in either English or Spanish.



[{"about_computing_score": 8, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses a nationwide IT malfunction in Germany that caused delays at airports due to a failure in the digitised passport checking system used by police. Although the article does not delve deeply into technical aspects, it highlights the significance of the malfunction and its impact on airport operations, indicating a strong relevance to computing and technology."}, {"about_computing_explanation": "", "about_computing_score": 0}]