Crypto and Golden Visas in Portugal
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.

                    Bitcoin. Credit: Pexels, WorldSpectrum                    
The European Union’s regulation for the Crypto Assets Market (MiCA) officially came into force on December 30, 2024, promising increased security and investor protection across member states.
The MiCA framework establishes uniform rules for crypto asset trading and services across the EU. According to the Portuguese Securities Market Commission (CMVM), this landmark regulation seeks to protect investors by mandating clear risk disclosures and introducing robust safeguards.
Providers must safeguard client funds, keeping them in segregated bank accounts to prevent misuse in the event of insolvency.
Transparent reporting and operational standards aim to curb fraud and manipulation.
MiCA does not regulate NFTs (non-fungible tokens) or unique digital assets.
The regulation also allows a transitional period of up to 18 months for businesses to fully comply, offering flexibility for entities adapting to the new framework.
The Unbound Fund, a venture capital fund regulated by the CMVM, offers a unique pathway to Portuguese residency by indirectly investing in Bitcoin through Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs).
To qualify for the Golden Visa, non-EU citizens must:
Alessandro Palombo, CEO of Unbound Fund, described the initiative as “a tool for freedom of movement in a mutually beneficial way with Portugal.” The scheme has reportedly attracted over 110 investors.
Portugal remains one of the most attractive countries for crypto enthusiasts. Short-term crypto gains (less than a year) are taxed at 28 per cent, but long-term holdings are tax-free.
Share this story
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!

                            Part-time writer, wife, and mother from the UK. Living an enjoyable life in southern Spain.                        
Known as the PEOPLE’S PAPER, Euro Weekly News is the leading English language newspaper in Spain. And it’s FREE!
Covering the Almeria, Axarquia, Costa Blanca North, Costa Blanca South, Costa del Sol , Costa Calida, Mallorca and beyond, EWN supports and inspires the individuals, neighbourhoods, and communities we serve, by delivering news with a social conscience. Whether it’s local news in Spain, UK news or international stories, we are proud to be the voice for the expat communities who now call Spain home.
With around half a million print readers a week and over 1.5 million web views per month, EWN has the biggest readership of any English language newspaper in Spain. The paper prints over 150 news stories a week with many hundreds more on the web – no one else even comes close.
Our publication has won numerous awards over the last 25 years including Best Free Newspaper of the Year (Premios AEEPP), Company of the Year (Costa del Sol Business Awards) and Collaboration with Foreigners honours (Mijas Town Hall). All of this comes at ZERO cost to our readers. All our print and online content always has been and always will be FREE OF CHARGE.
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!
Download our media pack in either English or Spanish.



[{"about_computing_score": 6, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions computing concepts such as the European Union's regulation for the Crypto Assets Market (MiCA), which establishes uniform rules for crypto asset trading and services across the EU, and the use of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) to indirectly invest in Bitcoin. While AI is not mentioned, the article provides some depth in discussing the technical aspects of crypto regulations and their impact on investors. However, the focus is shared with non-technological topics, such as residency and tax benefits in Portugal."}]