
        Utah AG Accuses TikTok of Knowing Minors Were Being Groomed on ‘Live’
    
The lawsuit reveals two internal investigations that TikTok launched into the activity on its Live platform. The first, Project Meramec, found that there were underage users performing sexualized acts on livestreams, done in exchange for virtual gifts given to them by viewers.
At the time of the investigation, TikTok policy forbade users who were 16 years old or younger from broadcasting on Live, and it prevented users under the age of 18 from sending or receiving virtual gifts that could be redeemed for money. However, enforcement of that fell short: the company’s internal review found that 112,000 underage users hosted livestreams during one single month in 2022. On top of that, the company found that its algorithm was boosting sexualized content, so those underage streamers were likely being recommended to viewers. There’s no real reason to wonder why that was happening: TikTok gets a cut of every virtual gift purchased. Users who get more gifts also generate more revenue for TikTok.
The second internal investigation, dubbed Project Jupiter, looked into money laundering operations that were being carried out using TikTok’s livestreaming service. That probe found that some criminal operations were using TikTok Live to move money around, while others were selling drugs and illegal services in exchange for virtual gifts. Internal communications between TikTok employees showed conversations about how Live may have been used to fund terrorist organizations like the Islamic State.
It’s possible that none of these platforms are good, actually.

          Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
        

          News from the future, delivered to your present.
        

      Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.
    

          With the app removed from the App Store, people have to go a long way to get their fix.
        

          The guy who brought you a bunch of dumb online videos wants to buy the site that distributes dumb online videos.
        

          "He was just sitting there watching it burn," the congressman told the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel.
        

          Trump says he wants the U.S. to have a "50% ownership position" in TikTok.
        

          What happens next is anyone’s guess.
        
Best of CES 2025 Awards ➜
Mode

                Follow us
              
Mode

                Follow us
              



[{"about_computing_score": 6, "about_computing_explanation": "The article discusses TikTok's internal investigations into grooming and money laundering operations on its Live platform. While AI or computing is not the main focus, it is a significant part of the discussion, particularly in relation to the algorithm boosting sexualized content and the use of virtual gifts. However, the discussion lacks depth, and other themes, such as child safety and criminal operations, play a notable role."}]