Gasgoo Daily: Geely Holding sets annual sales target of 5 million+ vehicles for 2027
        
          
    
With Gasgoo Daily, we will offer daily important automotive news in China. For those we have reported, the title of the piece will include a hyperlink, which will provide detailed information.
Geely Holding sets annual sales target of 5 million+ vehicles for 2027
On January 5, Geely Holding Group unveiled its strategic goals for the next three years. By 2027, the group aims to surpass annual vehicle sales of 5 million vehicles, positioning itself as a leader in electrification, intelligent transformation, and high-quality development.
Photo credit: Geely Holding
SAIC-GM-Wuling rolls out first made-in-Indonesia Shenlian battery
On January 3, SAIC-GM-Wuling announced the successful rollout of its first locally produced Shenlian battery in Indonesia. With this milestone, Wuling becomes the first Chinese automobile brand to achieve power battery production in the Indonesian market, marking a significant step in its regional localization efforts.
2025 ID.4 CROZZ hits market
The 2025 Volkswagen ID.4 CROZZ compact all-electric SUV officially hit the Chinese market on the evening of January 3, offering four trim options. Guidance prices range from 194,900 yuan to 298,600 yuan, with no-bargain pricing for specific editions: the Pure Enjoy Edition at 149,900 yuan and the Long-Range PURE+ Edition at 185,900 yuan. The new vehicle features enhancements in power performance, infotainment system, and intelligent driving systems compared to its predecessor.
China's optical image solution provider Kankan Tech nabs hundreds of millions of yuan in Pre-B+ funding round
Beijing Kankan Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd. (Kankan Tech), China's full-stack optical image solution provider, recently announced the successful completion of its Pre-B+ funding round, which raised for the company hundreds of millions of yuan.
China unveils first distributed electric-driven flying car
On the first day of 2025, the research team of China's Southeast University debuted the country's first distributed electric-drive flying car, "Southeast University · Kunpeng No.1", according to a post on the university's WeChat account. This innovation was developed by the university's Department of Automotive Engineering in the School of Mechanical Engineering and the Jiangsu Research Center for Intelligent Electric Transport Equipment.
GAC Energy launches first heavy-duty truck-dedicated charging station
GAC Energy recently unveiled its first charging station dedicated to heavy-duty trucks, which is located in Guiping city, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, according to a post on the company's WeChat account. This move marks the company's official entry into the heavy-duty truck energy replenishment market, ushering in a diversified energy development strategy.
Shanghai's first training data collection vehicles with autonomous driving large model hit road
On December 31, 2024, a fleet of 30 IM L6 data collection vehicles was officially launched at a ceremony in Pudong New Area, marking a significant step in Shanghai's efforts to advance its high-level autonomous driving ecosystem.
SGMW's full-year sales exceed 1.54 million vehicles in 2024
SAIC-GM-Wuling (SGMW) recently announced that its sales for 2024 reached 1,540,077 vehicles, representing a year-on-year growth of 9.76%.
JAC Yiwei, CATL collaborate on CIIC smart chassis development
JAC Yiwei, a subsidiary of JAC Group, recently signed a technical cooperation agreement with Contemporary Amperex Intelligence Technology (Shanghai) Limited (CAIT-SH), a subsidiary of CATL, according to the automaker's post on WeChat.
CATL, FAW Jiefang to cooperate in new energy commercial vehicle field
FAW Jiefang and CATL recently signed a strategic cooperation agreement under which the two parties will collaborate extensively in the field of new energy commercial vehicles, integrating their strengths to advance product development, resource alignment, R&D projects, industrial ecosystem construction, and business model innovation, according to a post on CATL's WeChat account.
Fixed orders for LUXEED R7 surpass 58,000 units so far
On January 5, Huawei's smart car alliance, Harmony Intelligent Mobility Alliance, announced that cumulative fixed orders for the LUXEED R7 model surpassed 58,000 units within 100 days of its market launch. In December 2024 alone, the LUXEED R7 recorded sales of over 15,000 units. 
CATL, Conch Group form strategic cooperation to drive green transformation
Chinese power battery giant CATL and Anhui Conch Group ("Conch"), a main player in China's cement industry, recently signed a strategic cooperation agreement in Ningde, Fujian, according to a post on CATL's WeChat account. The partnership aims to leverage both companies' strengths in advanced battery technology, new material development, application scenarios, and mining resources to foster collaboration across multiple sectors, including mining, manufacturing, and logistics.
Lynk & Co 009 flagship SUV makes debut
On January 3, Lynk & Co unveiled its latest model, the Lynk & Co 900, a flagship six-seater SUV built on the SPA Evo platform, a dedicated architecture for large plug-in hybrid electric vehicles.
Changan Automobile posts 5.12% YoY rise in 2024 annual sales
Chinese automaker Changan Automobile on Jan. 4 announced its monthly sales volume for December 2024, which stood at 250,689 vehicles, representing a 16.55% jump year-on-year.
Black Sesame Technologies, iSoft Infrastructure Software co-launch solutions based on C1200 chip family
Black Sesame Technologies and iSoft Infrastructure Software have jointly announced that the iSoft automotive open system architecture software solutions, featuring the latter's Lingzhi safety vehicle control operating system (AUTOSAR CP) and Lingxi intelligent driving operating system (AUTOSAR AP), are now compatible with Black Sesame's Wudang C1200 chip family. 
Geely Auto aims to hit 2025 annual sales target with focus on tech innovation, global expansion, multi-energy strategy
Looking ahead to 2025, Geely Auto has set a bold annual sales target of 2.71 million units, representing a 25% year-on-year jump. CEO Gan Jiayue recently outlined the group's strategy to achieve this goal, focusing on three core areas: product and technology innovation, global market expansion, and diversified energy solutions.
FAW Hongqi achieves record-high annual sales in 2024
FAW Group's Hongqi brand recently announced its 2024 sales performance, reporting a total of 411,777 vehicles sold throughout the year, which represented a 17.4% year-on-year increase. 2024 marked the seventh consecutive year for Hongqi to realize a year-on-year growth in sales.
iMotion, nenuHCT to co-develop lightweight urban navigation product
Chinese intelligent driving solution developer iMotion officially announced its partnership with Horizon Continental Technology Shanghai Co., Ltd. (nenuHCT), a joint venture between Continental and Horizon Robotics, to co-develop a lightweight urban navigation driving product based on Robotics' Journey® 6 series computing solutions.
XPENG, Volkswagen Group forge strategic partnership in super-fast charging field
On January 6, Chinese smart electric vehicle maker XPeng Inc. (XPENG) and Volkswagen Group China announced a strategic partnership in the field of super-fast charging networks with a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed on spot.



[{"about_computing_score": 6, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions various automotive technology advancements, including electrification, intelligent transformation, and high-quality development, which are related to computing and AI. However, the primary focus remains on the automotive industry, and the technological aspects are not the central theme of the article."}]