
            
Spats, divisions mar start of Poland's EU presidency

        
Log In

                    English (USA)
                

                    English (UK)
                

                    English (Canada)
                

                    English (India)
                

                    English (Australia)
                

                    Deutsch (Deutschland)
                

                    Deutsch (Österreich)
                

                    Deutsch (Schweiz)
                

                    Español
                

                    Français (France)
                

                    Français (Suisse)
                

                    Italiano
                

                    Nederlands (Nederland)
                

                    Nederlands (België)
                

                    Svenska (Sverige)
                

                                English (USA)
                            

                                English (UK)
                            

                                English (Canada)
                            

                                English (India)
                            

                                English (Australia)
                            

                                Deutsch (Deutschland)
                            

                                Deutsch (Österreich)
                            

                                Deutsch (Schweiz)
                            

                                Español
                            

                                Français (France)
                            

                                Français (Suisse)
                            

                                Italiano
                            

                                Nederlands (Nederland)
                            

                                Nederlands (België)
                            

                                Svenska (Sverige)
                            
WARSAW (Reuters) -     Poland launched its presidency of the Council of the European Union on Friday mired in a diplomatic row with Hungary that underscored a deepening sense of political disunity across Europe just as it confronts a raft of major global challenges.

              Saddled with a sluggish economy, the EU is bracing for the return of Donald Trump to the White House this month on an "America First" platform and the possible imposition of U.S. tariffs on European exports.

              It also faces deteriorating trade relations with China and Russia's grinding war in Ukraine, all at a time when the EU's two leading powers, France and Germany, are distracted by domestic political upheaval. 

              The Polish government said Hungary's envoy was not welcome at a ceremony to mark Warsaw taking on the EU's rotating, six-month presidency, a very public snub that follows months of political barb trading between the two countries' leaders.

              Hungary infuriated Poland last month by granting political asylum to a former Polish deputy justice minister who is under investigation at home for alleged misuse of public funds, which he denies. Warsaw called the move a "hostile act" contrary to EU principles and recalled its ambassador to Budapest.    

              Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto described Friday's snub as "childish", news website HVG.hu reported.     The Polish move just added to multiplying signs of European disharmony. 

              Slovakia, which along with Hungary has sought to maintain some ties with Russia, threatened retaliation on Thursday against Ukraine after it halted the transit flows of Russian gas, while on Friday negotiations on forming a new government in Austria suffered a blow when a key party quit the talks.
POLISH AMBITIONS

              Against this gloomy backdrop, Poland is seeking a leading role in shaping European policy, especially on security. 

              Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk hopes "to lead a realignment in the EU when it comes to building a coalition around support for Ukraine and meaningful peace that benefits Kyiv, not Moscow", said Edit Zgut-Przybylska, an assistant professor at the Institute of Philosophy and Sociology in the Polish Academy of Sciences.

              Tusk, a former president of the European Council who previously also served as head of the centre-right European People's Party, is a well-connected figure on the EU stage. 

              But as European capitals face tough decisions on issues such as how to bolster and finance defence spending, analysts say Warsaw is unlikely to be able to lead on its own. 

              Piotr Buras, head of the European Council of Foreign Relations' Warsaw office, said the current challenges facing the EU surpass the capacity and time horizon of any one six-month presidency.

              "This is a key moment for Europe above all due to Trump's arrival and the situation in Ukraine but also issues related to the broader economy, competitiveness and possibly the trade war with a simultaneous weakness of leadership and a transition moment within the EU itself," Buras said.

              Poland too has its domestic distractions. Despite his big European ambitions, Buras said, Tusk's number one goal in the coming months will be securing victory for his centrist, pro-EU camp in Poland's presidential election scheduled for May. 

              "Imagine the discussion about sending European troops to Ukraine or about trade relations with Ukraine in May - these show Poland's limitations and the sensitivity of the national agenda vis-a-vis the EU agenda," Buras said. 

              Regarding Europe's collective security and support for Kyiv, some analysts said Germany, Europe's biggest economy, could take on a bigger role after its Feb. 23 national election, which the conservatives are currently tipped to win. 

              "The only hope is that the new German leadership will decide to take a much more active and assertive stance," said Peter Bator, a former Slovak ambassador to NATO who is now chief analyst at the opposition Progressive Slovakia party. 
 (Reporting by Marek Strzelecki and Anna Wlodarczak-Semczuk in Warsaw and Lili Bayer and Gergely Szakacs in Budapest; Editing by Gareth Jones)

            By Marek Strzelecki and Lili Bayer
Are Donald Trump's economic goals realistic?
Crypto: The Trump administration's well-stocked wallets - Crypto Recap
Gold: Why does the negative correlation with real rates no longer work?
Voyager Technologies to infinity and the IPO 
ASML VS ASM International: what's the difference?
Why are US developers struggling since the Fed started cutting rates? 
Nymex Overview : Petroleum Futures Mixed, on Track for Weekly Loss -- OPIS
Toronto Stocks Inch Up, Global Atomic Shares Fall on Private Offering Increase
New solar plants to power majority of US electricity generation growth, EIA says
Europe closes mixed between luxury goods, Trump and indicators
Déjà Vu Donald

                            Wall Street's main indexes are on a roll, eyeing their second straight week of gains. The Dow Jones is particularly enthusiastic, gearing up for its biggest weekly leap since October 2022. What's fueling this bullish sentiment? A cocktail of Trump's ambitious artificial intelligence investment plans, a hint of cooling inflation, and robust earnings from the banking heavyweights. As we look to the horizon, tech titans like Microsoft, Meta, Apple, and Tesla are set to unveil their quarterly results next week. Investors are on the edge of their seats, eager to see if these giants will continue to dazzle.
                    
Analyst recommendations: Air Products, Cbre Group, Netflix, Block, Anglo American...
S&P 500 hits closing record as Trump demands lower rates
Fed's rate-cut view set to test resurgent US stocks rally
Dividend surge signals culture shift in China's markets
European earnings may keep the mood sweet as tariff fears grow
Tesla announces revamped Model Y version in US priced at $59,990
Tesla to Recall 1.2 Million Cars in China on Safety Concerns
FTSE 100 mixed as consumer confidence drops
Trump says he could reach trade deal with China, calls talk with Xi 'friendly'
 
Currency / Forex
Commodities
Cryptocurrencies
OUR EXPERTS ARE HERE FOR YOU
Monday - Friday 9am-12pm / 2pm-6pm GMT + 1



[{"about_computing_score": 6, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions artificial intelligence investment plans by Donald Trump, but it is not the primary focus of the article. The article discusses various economic and political issues, and AI is only briefly mentioned as a factor contributing to the bullish sentiment on Wall Street. The discussion lacks depth and is not central to the article's main theme."}]