China partners Middle East for greener future
CAIRO — In the golden expanse of the Arabian desert where oil's dominance was unchallenged, a new source of power is taking shape — solar panels gleam under the relentless sun; wind turbines carve arcs against the sky; and electric cars hum along newly paved roads.
The scene is not a fantasy but a rapidly unfolding reality, driven by an alliance that is reshaping the Middle East's future — its partnership with China.
By 2024, China and the Middle East had forged dynamic cooperation in green energy, fitting the region's aspirations to diversify its economy with China's expertise in renewable technologies. The partnership, spanning solar power, hydrogen production and electric vehicles, is remoulding the region's "power" dynamics.
In the Al Dhafra Desert, the world's largest single-site solar plant — built by China Machinery Engineering Corp — stands as a testament to this productive partnership, delivering a staggering 2,100 megawatts of power, lighting up 200,000 homes in the United Arab Emirates and cutting carbon emissions by 2.4 million metric tons annually.
The UAE is not unique in making strides in green energy across the region, where iconic projects are sprouting — NOOR Concentrated Solar Power projects in Morocco, one of the world's largest concentrated solar farms whose second and third phases were constructed by Chinese companies; Ibri Solar Power project, the largest renewable energy project in Oman; and the world's largest photovoltaic-energy storage microgrid on Saudi Arabia's Red Sea coast.
Adding to the momentum, Chinese giants Jinko Solar and TCL Zhonghuan announced joint ventures with Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund in July 2024. With investments worth over $3 billion, these projects aim to localize solar manufacturing and help translate Saudi Arabia into a global hub for renewable energy exports.
"These agreements will not only enhance local capabilities, but also solidify Saudi Arabia's role in the global energy transition," a PIF statement said.
While solar power is being wired to Mideast homes, Chinese-made electric vehicles are whizzing on roadways. In Riyadh and Dubai, EVs are no longer novelties but harbingers of a dramatic change for green energy vehicles. Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030 presents a $50 billion investment in EV production, with the first Saudi-made electric vehicles coming off the production line in 2025.
In the UAE, Chinese carmaker Nio, in partnership with CYVN Holdings, launched the Nio Mena in October. The joint venture will introduce Nio's vehicle models and establish a research and development center focused on AI-driven technologies, notably autonomous driving.
The UAE has an ambitious vision for green mobility. In 2023, the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure of UAE unveiled a plan to increase the share of electric and hybrid vehicles to 50 percent by 2050, and set up 10,000 charging stations by 2030 across the country.
The EV revolution is also being embraced by Egypt and Turkiye, where Chinese automakers have either established assembly plants or formed partnerships to boost local EV production.
Chinese EV brands, such as BYD, Geely and MG, are also gaining traction across the Middle East. In 2023, Chinese EVs accounted for about 61 percent of the EV market in Israel, a share that rose to 68.31 percent in the first half of 2024. In Jordan, 87 percent of EVs cleared from its free zone in 2023 were from China, according to the Jordan Free Zones Investor Commission. Adding to the dynamics, Dubai's Roads and Transport Authority recently welcomed Chinese-made electric buses into its public transit network.
Xinhua



[{"about_computing_score": 6, "about_computing_explanation": "The article is related to computing, specifically AI, as it mentions the use of AI-driven technologies, notably autonomous driving, in the Nio Mena joint venture. However, the main focus of the article is on the partnership between China and the Middle East for green energy, with computing/AI being one of the minor themes. The discussion is relatively surface-level, and the focus is shared with non-technological topics."}]