Smart Costa Blanca: Alicante’s tourism revolution
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.
It is often said that knowledge is power, and this is never more accurate than when you establish yourself as a foreign resident in a new country, like Spain. Being able to quickly familiarise yourself with the culture, rules, events, and customs can help ease the transition during a challenging time.
This is why Euro Weekly News makes it our mission to provide you with a free news resource in English that covers both regional and national Spanish news – anything that we feel you will benefit from knowing as you integrate into your new community and live your best life in Spain.  In this way, you can forget about translating articles from Spanish into awkward English that probably don’t make much sense. Let us be your convenient and essential guide to all things that will likely affect you as a foreign resident living in Spain.

                    Image: Ayuntamiento de Alicante.                     
The European Union has approved €1.2 million in funding to support the Smart Costa Blanca 2.0 project. 
The Smart Costa Blanca 2.0 project focuses on digital transformation by integrating a smart platform with the PID Central Node and various destination platforms. This interconnected approach will unify tourism efforts across Alicante, fostering collaboration between local administrations and creating a comprehensive provincial tourism network.
Key objectives include improving the functionality of the Smart Costa Blanca platform, enabling it to aggregate data from diverse sources for enhanced analysis and management. New tools will support sustainable water resource management, enhance accessibility to tourism services, and digitise publications to streamline information dissemination. A provincial tourism intelligence system will also be developed, employing real-time data collection from sensors across municipalities to provide actionable insights and optimize resource usage.
Share this story
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!

                            Originally from Derbyshire, UK, Anna has lived in the middle of nowhere on the Costa Blanca for 20 years.                        
Known as the PEOPLE’S PAPER, Euro Weekly News is the leading English language newspaper in Spain. And it’s FREE!
Covering the Almeria, Axarquia, Costa Blanca North, Costa Blanca South, Costa del Sol , Costa Calida, Mallorca and beyond, EWN supports and inspires the individuals, neighbourhoods, and communities we serve, by delivering news with a social conscience. Whether it’s local news in Spain, UK news or international stories, we are proud to be the voice for the expat communities who now call Spain home.
With around half a million print readers a week and over 1.5 million web views per month, EWN has the biggest readership of any English language newspaper in Spain. The paper prints over 150 news stories a week with many hundreds more on the web – no one else even comes close.
Our publication has won numerous awards over the last 25 years including Best Free Newspaper of the Year (Premios AEEPP), Company of the Year (Costa del Sol Business Awards) and Collaboration with Foreigners honours (Mijas Town Hall). All of this comes at ZERO cost to our readers. All our print and online content always has been and always will be FREE OF CHARGE.
Subscribe to our Euro Weekly News alerts to get the latest stories into your inbox!
Download our media pack in either English or Spanish.



[{"about_computing_score": 6, "about_computing_explanation": "The article mentions AI or computing concepts, specifically digital transformation, smart platform, and provincial tourism intelligence system. While AI or computing is central to the discussion, the article lacks depth in technical details and focuses on the project's objectives and goals. The use of technology is to improve the functionality of the Smart Costa Blanca platform, enable data aggregation, and support sustainable water resource management, among other objectives."}, {"uses": ["Digital transformation", "Smart platform", "Provincial tourism intelligence system", "Data aggregation", "Sustainable water resource management", "Enhanced accessibility to tourism services", "Digitisation of publications", "Real-time data collection from sensors"]}]